The Sea Hawk is the one film that I saw as a kid and could not stop watching from start to finish . With breathtaking action , great acting , and a plot line that takes you all over the world [ from England to South America and back ] The Sea Hawk is one movie that you should see if you want to know what a real pirate movie is all about.Errol Flynn stars as Captain Thorpe , a privateer who robs Spanish ships at the time when England and Spain were at war hundreds of years ago . After a great sea battle in the beginning of the moive [ Yes there are guns , sword fights , and cannon fire galore ! ] Thorpe and his men sail back to England with their captured treasure as well as the Spanish ambassador who was sailing toward England to talk with Queen Elizabeth.Joining the ambassador is his daughter Olivia [ played by Brenda Marshall ] who eventually [ or should I say inevitably ? ] falls in love with Thorpe after several romantic scenes in a rose garden as well on Thorpe 's ship , The Albatross.The Sea Hawks are a group of privateers who rob pirate ships as well as Spanish ships in the name of the Queen as well as England . The ambassador is not too pleased with the way he was captured and treated by the men , but the Queen secretly applauds Thorpe for making him look like a fool in front of her.Thorpe is soon sent on a mission to the isthmus of Panama to steal a great amount of gold that is shipped by Spanish troops by caravan to suport Spain 's vast amount of wealth in the war . Being very poor compared to Spain , England 's only hope it seems is to steal the gold and use it for itself in the war . The Albatross along with Thrope and his crew set sail to steal the gold.I wo n't spoil the movie for you , but I will say that a great battle for the gold caravan takes place as well as other great storylines that involve treason , betrayal , and retribution . One involves a secret plot that is revealed involving a massive armada of Spanish ships that will attack England , and also a great sword fight near the end of the movie.This is the movie that started the great chain of Pirate movies for new generations to see . But it is really nice to go back and watch some of the early ones . Sure the special effects are n't as good but the acting is terrific and there are plenty of great action scenes.Extras include : Flynn In Action - A showing of Flynn behind the scenesSubtitlesAnd a newsreel on the movie called `` Warner Night at the Movies - 1940 '' This DVd is highly recommended