The Jean Claude Van Damme Review Matrix ( JCVD-RM ) 1.Who is he ? He 's two guys ! Identical twins separated at birth by the Chinese mafia , one , Chad , is a silk underwear-wearing pretty boy from Los Angeles , and the other , Alex , is a criminal from Hong Kong . Amazingly , they both grew up to be martial arts experts.2.Which family member/friend must be avenged ? Their parents are murdered by the same Chinese mafia3.Does he take his shirt off ? Bolo Yeung rips Chad 's shirt off during a fight sequence4.Does he have sex with a C-List actress ? Yes . Actually , his sex scene with the beautiful Alonna Shaw is worthy of late-night skinemax fame.5.Is there a tournament ? Sadly , no.6.Is training needed for this tournament ? Perhaps some firearms training should have taken place , but aside from that , no.7.Does he do the splits in training or in the tournament ? When teaching/training a class for aerobics , or something , he dons some spandex and displays the goods for the ladies . He tells them that the splits are easy because of his big legs and karate.8.Does he punch someone in the balls ? Yes , Chad jab-kicked Bolo Yeung in the jewels during the final fight - which was clearly revenge for the nut-chop Bolo delivered to Chad 's family jewels earlier in the movie.9.Does he do a series of flying or 360 kicks ? Let 's just say that he can use the marks on Bolo Yeung 's jawline for his next boot fitting10.Is his enemy unbeatable ? It 's Peter Malota and Bolo Yeung . Plus , Bolo has a glass eye , and a career record of 0-1 previous to this movie . So , challenging ? Yes . Unbeatable ? Probably not.11.Does he overcome an injury or other hindrance ? Not only does he have to battle Peter Malota , Bolo Yeung , Cory Everson , and poor night-vision , but during one fight scene Donkey Kong apparently begins to throw barrels at Chad.12.Does he win ? Without the help of electricity , I have no doubt Bolo Yeung would have won . However , JCVDx2 manages to avenge their parents and claim their stole inheritance by taking down the entire Chinese syndicate.So , this one goes slightly outside the typical JCVD flick , but the overall impression is positive . In spite of himself , he actually portrays a bad guy or a hardened criminal fairly well . I especially appreciated perhaps the best snot-rocket scene in cinema history - the lighting is stupendous . Ignoring the whole JCVD angle , this one is actually a decent movie with some rather funny dialogue with several gratuitous F-bombs .