This is a movie of redemption . Well ... perhaps not in the way you think . This is supposedly Eastwood 's last movie as far as acting , or so I 've heard . He plays a retired auto worker who 's bitter at the world a.k.a . Hollywood 's latest attempt at portraying the Grumpy Old Man , but this time it 's nothing to laugh at . Here you have a man who fought in Korea , and is prejudiced against all Asians . He for the most part does n't have anything nice to say about anyone . This all changes one night when his prized possession a 1972 Gran Torino is almost stolen by a teenage Asian boy as a initiation to join a gang . Well it backfires , and the boy is almost killed by Walt ( Eastwood 's character ) . It 's at this point that Walt 's and the boy Tao 's paths cross as Tao 's family makes him go over to apologize to Walt , and offers Tao to help out Walt . Walt 's heart is softened somewhat , and he becomes friendly with Tao 's family , and breaks bread with them . He also protects them well the big sister as the gangs in Detroit where Walt lives take a shine to her ... .Not . Anyway Walt takes Tao under his wing ( In his own way ) , and helps him to come out of his shell . Then the real test comes when Tao 's sister is assaulted , and Walt takes matters into his own hands so to speak . Surprisingly he does it up as a way to pay back the Asians he murdered in war while in Korea . He goes out , and gets a fitted suit , makes amendments to his will , and does something his dead wife wanted him to do , and that was to make confession of all his sins . He confronts the teenage Asians with the assumption to kill them all , but imagine that he allows the gang to kill him . This is redemption in action which is how I guess some men try to make amends for not showing love to one another because of male pride , and so forth . Tao in fact gets the closest to an apology from Walt as Tao assumes that he 's going along with Walt to confront the gang , and Walt tells Tao that he ( Walt ) has blood on his hands , and that he does n't want that for Tao . Not to mention that to the surprise of his family ... especially his eldest granddaughter that the Gran Torino goes to Tao . This was a decent outing for Eastwood , but not quite the classics of `` Play Misty For Me '' , or `` Heartbreak Ridge '' . This movie did speak to me however as the scene where Tao goes into the barber shop with Walt , and Walt starts spewing slurs left and right , and then Tao trying to emulate Walt does the same thing , but ends up insulting the guy . This is where we as men have to be careful because we as children want to be modeled after our fathers . I know that one time I heard my father slur a race , and when I said something similar I was told to : '' Shut Up . '' I still do n't understand if he did n't want me to utter the slur then why did he do it in front of me ? This is not a movie for those who are offended by racial slurs , and downright raunchy language . However , Eastwood should 've recieved the Best Actor award for his portrayal of Walt .