Probably the two best films about that misunderstood painful part of America 's history is Apocalypse and Full Metal Jacket . And even they may spend too much time evaluating the ancient conflict between the Pharaoh and the Jews ( good and evil ) instead of pride and punishment.I admire even more the quote from Tennyson about his son 's death at the Somme , `` when they ask you why they died tell them because their fathers lied . '' Along with Macnamara and Nixon and Kissenger and the Generals and Johnson and Kennedy.The simplicity of that observation is , I feel , the more interesting quest but also may be the least lucrative . I wonder sometimes when we made the movies about Vietnam and saw them and talked about them and saw them again , were we in search of a true vision of the conflict or were we in search of what might be a better product to market , the war having been over and done with and now only a sad memory in the minds of those who lost sons and daughters , and a still fertile battleground to contemplate the 'whys ' in the heads of its survivors.Because with a sports mentality for keeping statistics about Vietnam , the one that sticks in my mind forever is that 'never in the history of war have more survivors committed suicide than those that were killed in the war . ' Kind of catches in your throat , does n't it ? The great thing about Captain Willard 's ( Martin Sheen , maybe at his best ) mission ( the ceiling fan still geeks me ) is that it does encourage the journey into duplicity . Good wars ; Bad wars ; good drugs ; bad drugs ; remorseful convicted defendants ; unremorseful convicted defendants , who decides ? Ditto Brando and Duvall and the excellent cast in their supporting roles . This is an extraordinary movie and somewhere , it should be required reading ( observing ) for classes in high school . It probably is less of a movie about war than truly a visit to the Heart of Darkness.The best thing about Apocalypse that jumps right there in your face , is that it is so disturbing . That 's how I think we should feel . And I have to say that for myself , superficially a semi-successful teacher , a pretty good father and uncle and grandfather , older , not prone to bouts of melancholia or abusiveness , having spent my tour in Hue Phubai , my one recollection that stands out in front of all the rest is that . It disturbs me . Still . 5 stars . Larry Scantlebury