On the surface `` Precious '' could be another sad movie about tragic circumstances of the poor , uneducated , etc . What I walked away with from the movie was the following:1 ) the complexity of victimization , that in this society in an effort not to resolve the true core issues of our day , we spend all our focus on painstakingly analyzing why the victim is in the circumstances they find themselves and how its their fault . In Precious , we witness the victimization of a young girl , and not till the end do we see the victimization of the mother , and we see nothing of the victimization of the father.2 ) failures of a society , that in a society that does n't spend all its resources in maximally developing its citizenry , but instead creates multiple layers of winners based on categories of class , race , education , wealth and sex - you instead maximize victimization . Obviously a highly victimized society , were any victim can then turn perp , but for the most part does n't turn activist is one that can be better managed and controlled and continually denied basic dignity.3 ) choices , that each and every day we all have the choice to make our lives and the lives of others better from our vantage point . On our job when someone is being targeted , do you have the courage not to join in for fear you will be next . In your relatoinship when it becomes clear that it has taken an unhealthy turn , do you have the courage to seek support and the relationship 's end instead of allowing the robbing of years of your life . As a professional doctor , lawyer , officer , etc . with the special priviliedges you enjoy in this society , your actions can be catastrophic to an individual 's life , do you have the courage to not fall into the trap of feeling that the lives of others do n't count , and therefore do n't warrant your compassion or whatever real and safe assistance at your disposal.4 ) justice , that each and everyone on this planet is deserving and in so believing that all of our resources must be brought to bear in order to bring about peace , justice , and the upliftment of life wherever we find ourselves . That it is not victims that are weak for they have truly survived unimaginable horrors , weakness are in the actions of the perp who neither process the compulsion or imagination to do something other than harming/maiming/raping or killing of others as well as those who simply walk away ( physically or mentally ) when their resources could be of use.Precious was n't simply about the abuse of a young black girl ; it was about the abuse and victimization of all people everywhere . I commend the writers , producers , actors and actresses , etc . having the courage to make this movie and in so doing - make a statement.Now what are we going to do ? ?