If you have read my other reviews , you know I like complex , layered topics . Ida Lupino is now my role model as a filmaker actress . If this film were made today it would be called and `` indie '' . Back then it was called `` low budget '' . Clearly , though , this type of thoughtful , well acted , sensitive , insightful look at a difficult subject is where the indie movement has come from . This film handles the subject of Bigamy from the standpoint of the story of this `` regular guy '' who ends up in a situation we come to understand from all its angles , who allows himself to be undone by applying to adopt a child and submitting to the background check . I can not begin to describe how well this is handled . For a subject that reeks with potential melodrama , every single element is drawn from the characters , and the choices they are making . Joan Fontaine clearly had courage and an eye for thoughtful and controversial subjects ( remember , Hitchcock 's suspicion was supposed to - from the book story - end in her complicity in her own murder at the hands of her husband ) . She handles her role here so deftly ... the character that we assume to be the `` perfect wife '' is unveiled as being very myopic and disregarding her marriage . Ida Lupino gives herself the role of the working girl who asks no questions , so that she does n't have to hear any lies . Edmund O'Brien , usually cast as the hulking tough , must have been delighted to have this morally complex , but remarkably unconflicted role . This film is simply a revelation . What is lovely is that the film recognizes all the typical things society would say about this situation , but we see the individuals , and they see each other , with human foibles and compassion . Clearly , too this is one of the precursors to films like `` Days of Wine and Roses '' and `` A Patch of Blue '' in the next decade ... films that took basically ordinary characters and put them in situations that were frowned on by society . The material is `` of it 's time , '' the elements and attitudes toward it would be very different today . But this is simply a masterful moment of film history that stands up to time .