I have never read any of Tom Clancy 's works , but I have seen all the movies made from them . Patriot Games is one of them.The storyline is quite simple : Jack Ryan ( Harrison Ford ) , former CIA analyst , is on vacation/lecture tour in England with his family . While on the way to meet them near Buckingham Palace , he & his family are caught in a cross-fire during an assassination attempt on a member of the Royal Family , Lord Holmes ( Edward Fox ) , by a rogue faction of the IRA led by Sean Miller ( Sean Bean ) . In the ensuing shoot-out , Jack killed one the terrorists , who happens to be Sean 's younger brother . Jack gets drawn back into the CIA after the terrorists set out a vengeful attack against his family back in USA.In my view , the action sequences in this movie are not very exciting , when compared with any of the recent Bond & /or Bourne movies , although the entire movie is quite entertaining . I particularly enjoyed the sequence showing a real-time satellite-tracking session at CIA HQ , during which Jack & his counter-terrorism team are watching a crack SAS team conducting a black ops raid at the terrorists ' hideout somewhere in Libya . The accompanying music score is realistically haunting ! What excites me most about this movie is watching Jack exercising his astute power of observation & his uncanny ability to juxtapose images in a relentless attempt to track down the whereabout of the rogue faction of the IRA , ... with the high-tech resources of CIA 's counter-terrorism group , of course.Using vital information secured from Paddy O'Neil ( Richard Harris ) , an IRA supporter in the USA , Jack narrows down the search through his observation/juxtaposition of CIA 's satellite images ( which includes an overhead snapshot of an apparently capped woman with a pony tail ) with his own recalled images : - a back-view glimpse of the pony-tailed driver in the terrorists ' getaway vehicle during the foiled assassination attempt in England ; - a side-view glance of the pony-tailed driver in the terrorists ' getaway vehicle during an unsuccessful assassination attempt on his life outside the US Naval Academy ; All these associations have been triggered while taking a break & walking pass a pony-tailed woman employee on the way to answer the call of nature at CIA Headquarters.What a brilliant piece of detective work - observation plus juxtaposition - on the part of Jack ! The Power of Observation & Juxtaposition are obviously requisite character traits of a CIA analyst.In summing up this review , I have enjoyed very much watching Patriot Games , experientially as well as educationally . This is another wonderful addition to my resource repertoire .