`` Mostly Martha '' is well-done comedy/drama in which star Martina Gedeck does an outstanding job of portraying her complex character , Martha . Many reviewers have commented on the food metaphor in the movie , and there is no doubt that the sensual pleasure of food is highlighted here . The romantic-comedy elements are also present in the initial conflicts , growing respect , and eventual relationship between Martha and Mario . However , this movie is far more interesting and complex than the usual romantic comedy.Gedeck does an outstanding job of portraying all of Martha 's vulnerabilities , which is what makes both main storylines - her relationship with Mario and her relationship with her niece , Lina - so affecting . Martha is an insecure woman who excels at cooking , and she will not take any risks in life unless she can put her cooking talents to use in the process . We see this in her interactions with her therapist and her new next-door neighbor ( who initially seems as though he may become her romantic interest ) . When Martha 's sister is killed in a car accident and Martha takes in her niece , Lina , her only initial attempts at consoling the girl involve trying to get her to eat . Indeed , Martha is what can best be described as an obsessive control freak when it comes to cooking and eating.Having said that , I must emphasize again that Gedeck does such an outstanding acting job that the viewer remains sympathetic to Martha ( with perhaps the exception of one scene that involves Lina and school ) throughout the film , which is rarely the case between such obsessive characters and viewers . We understand that she fears openness , closeness , and - above all - rejection.The dramatic and comedic elements are nicely interwoven so that the viewer is never overwhelmed by some of sadder aspects of the story but also does n't forget that the story involves a young girl who has lost her mother . The comedic elements are present throughout the movie , though they are rarely of the laugh-out-loud style ( except the scene in which Martha hyperventilates when she sees what a mess Mario is making of her kitchen - it is Martha 's neuroses that provide much of the comedy , as well as some of the drama , in the film ) . The writer ( s ) and director , Sandra Nettelbeck , provide a model example of how comedy is effectively used to relieve the tension created by dramatic incidents . I highly recommend this film for viewers who enjoy movies that are character-driven rather than action-driven . I also commend the filmmakers for showing restraint and not including the ( usually inevitable ) sex scene that most such relationship movies have . My personal beliefs still do n't agree with the implied sex , but thanks to the filmmakers ' better judgment the movie remains a true romantic comedy rather than becoming a sex comedy .