Altruism , benevolence , a mother 's love for her son and pure , unadulterated evil are the key elements in one of the most dynamic and emotionally charged ( as well as overlooked ) films of the year ( 2000 ) , `` Dancer In the Dark , '' directed by Lars von Trier . Icelandic singer Bjork stars as Selma Yeskova , a single mother living in a small town in Washington State , who works in a factory to support herself and her ten-year-old son , Gene ( Vladan Kostic ) . Selma works her fingers to the bone , taking double shifts and doing whatever she can to save enough money for an operation Gene will need when he turns thirteen to correct an inherited , genetic condition that will eventually rob him of his sight . And Selma knows only too well the effects of the disorder ; even as she works towards accruing the sum needed for the operation , she is coping with the onset of her own imminent blindness . Besides her son , her one passion in life is movie musicals , which she has loved since she was a little girl ; she grew up with them , and now it is to them that she turns in her mind when life closes in on her and threatens to become unbearable . When she is overwhelmed and overburdened , she hears music in the sounds of the factory and finds rhythm in the work . In the musicals she finds the respite from concern she needs to carry on , escaping to a place where `` nothing dreadful ever happens . '' Set in 1964 against a backdrop of the beautiful rural Pacific Northwest , the content of von Trier 's film is so real and it is so visually engrossing that at times it 's like watching a home video . And it makes you more than merely an observer of Selma 's life ; you become involved . You share the joy of a mother watching her son ride his first bicycle ; you sense the `` community '' of her friends and co-workers who help make her life bearable . Von Trier successfully manages to avoid any maudlin sentimentality , and instead tells the story in a voice that is straightforward and creates an intense , emotionally complex and memorable film that ultimately takes you to a place that , in the beginning , you would never have dreamed possible . In a way , it all sneaks up on you , until suddenly you find yourself caught up and swept away in an emotional torrent . Discovering a great film is always exciting ( and without question this is one ) , but when it includes an astounding new talent , as well , it is indeed a thrill . And such is the case here . For as Selma , Bjork quite simply gives one of the best performances of the year , and how she got passed over for an Oscar nomination is beyond me . A gifted individual , she brings subtle nuance to the character , and conveys a humanity of singular depth that makes Selma , and the fact that she is so adamant in her undertaking , more than real and believable . That the viewer is able to be drawn in and affected on such a personal level with this film is a direct result of Bjork 's natural ability as an actress . Granted , von Trier led the way , and her co-stars ( especially David Morse , in a terrific performance as her friend , Bill ) provided invaluable support , but the real connection this film makes with audience is through -- and because of -- Bjork . The supporting cast includes Catherine Deneuve ( Kathy ) , Peter Stormare ( Jeff ) , Udo Kier ( Dr. Porkorny ) , Joel Grey ( Oldrich Novy ) , Vincent Paterson ( Samuel ) , Cara Seymour ( Linda ) and Stellan Skarsgard ( Doctor ) . Much of the strength of von Trier 's film lies in the implied , as well as the overt aspects of it , and in the end , `` Dancer In the Dark '' will leave you with many things to ponder for some time to come , especially concerning those `` gray areas '' of the human condition . Rationale , motivation , the distorted priorities to which it seems so many people are prone , as well as proof of the existence of true goodness that many do , in fact , carry in their hearts . Emotionally devastating , this is a film that demands reflection . Unfortunately , it raises many questions to which -- just as in real life -- there are simply no real answers .