The title of this film alludes to a remedy prescribed to one of the characters . If I was to be more specific and explain what the remedy is for I would ruin the plot , so , I wo n't do that ! I will tell you , since I take writing these capsule reviews very seriously that I do n't believe that this film is worthy of your time . Based on a novel by Luis Chu , EAT A BOWL OF TEA examines 1940s United States and the Chinese-American experience in this country . Due to a stringent immigration act , all Chinese men coming abroad the USA to seek work were forced to leave their wives behind . Chinese women were not allowed to accompany their husbands , when they came seeking jobs to support their families back home . Thus , the older Chinese men who had settled in this country twenty years before , were aging alone , without the possiblity of bringing first born sons into the world , to continue their familial lineage . In spite of miscygenation laws , Chinese and Chinese-American men would sometimes keep company with Caucasian women , as is depicted in the example of the young main character , Ben Loy ( Russell Wong ) . Ben is sent home to China , by his father , to meet and marry a nice Chinese girl . When he finds her ( Cora Miao ) and they get married , Loy becomes impotent ( one factor possibly being stress -- especially , the stress of producing an heir -- something that is mandatory in the eyes of Ben 's father , as well as their community ) . This leads to unfortunate circumstances and choices based on frustration and embarrassment.Why did n't this film work for me ? Well , for starters , themes of family obligation , extramarital affairs , and bicultural identity were handled in a very clumsy way and the poor acting certainly did n't help . Russell Wong 's delivery of the lines was wooden ( at best ) and the other characters seemed more like poorly-developed caricatures . What 's more , a seduction scene that should have been sexy was more creepy . In fact , more than one of us watching this scene thought that it almost came off more as a rape scene , which was incredibly disturbing . Skip this one .