My 3 1/2 year old and I both liked The Great Discovery and Hero of the Rails , but I was not so pleased with Misty Island ( too many unbelievable/out there/ '' ugh '' moments ) , but that did n't stop him from LOVING it . He saw that movie a year ago and there still is n't a week that goes by that he does n't re-enact something from the Diesel & jobi wood sequence ( in fact , tonight Emily was hooked up to Rocky and Rocky was dropping her over the side of my couch `` into the sea below . `` ) .I was very excited there was a new Thomas movie , and the re-appearance of Diesel 10 ( who you see at the very end of Misty Island as a set up for this movie ) . Well , I can say my son has seen it about 20 times by now and really likes it . He has the Cranky and Flynn TrackMaster set and re-enacts the fire sequence and makes up his own play , which tells me it captured his imagination.The movie is beautiful to look at . It starts with a fire , and Flynn ( fire engine that can go on tracks ) and Belle ( new engine who fights fires ) help put it out . Flynn is touted as a hero . Thomas is told by Sir Topham Hatt to take care of them , leaving Percy feeling abandoned . Diesel `` oils up '' to Percy and starts sowing the seeds of discord , and Diesel 10 is Percy 's new best friend who just wants something from him . In a brave move , Percy goes to the Diesel Works , and then when he finds out how run down it is and how the diesels lack even a crane , talks Kevin into going with him from the Steam Works.Diesel 10 schemes and manipulates and finally the time comes when everyone is away from the Steam Works . The diesels and Percy charge over to the Steam Works and take it over . I do n't think any parents will mind if I spoil the ending here , but Percy , Thomas , and Sir Topham Hatt end up confronting the diesels . Sir Topham Hatt is cross ( is n't he always ? = ) , but Thomas and Percy cut in to explain the poor conditions of the Diesel Works . A little later , everyone ( steamies and diesels ) work together to build a new Diesel Works.My son had big saucer eyes during the fire , and was a bit tense at times when Diesel 10 was being particularly devious . He was n't scared , but definitely anxious at certain points . The measure of the film , however , is that he has continued to ask for it again and again . I did n't like this one nearly as much as other Thomas movies , and less than the TV series . So 5 stars from my Thomas fanatic , 3 stars from me . Maybe it 's because Percy is so annoying !