`` Haunted Highway '' is a low-budget horror suspense directed by Japanese director . You may expect something scary and creepy like the original version of `` Ring , '' but `` Haunted Highway '' is actually more like a ride to boredom , where nothing but familiar tricks of horror genre happens.The film is about an American photographer Greg ( Rand Gamble ) who has an affair with a Japanese model Yumi ( Hinano Yoshikawa ) . Bitter accusation from his wife Amanda ( Laura Putney ) leads to one accident , which forces Greg to drive on the deserted midnight road to the lake . On the way Greg encounters several weird things that might drive his mind which is already confused to insanity.To create a gripping suspense or horror using a confined space like a car is a really challenging thing , but judging from the film the filmmaker is not up to the task . From the opening credit ( that looks like David Lynch 's `` Lost Highway '' ) to its ending , there is nothing that would interest us . The film uses up all the tricks in its first half , and the inserted flashback scenes ( of which content is already suggested in the pre-credit section ) are just unnecessary . The film 's passable acting and creaky dialogues ( especially in the first scene ) do not help . Hinano Yoshikawa is not known for her acting talent in Japan , but I never expected she could be that bad.But probably she should not be blamed because , according to the film 's official homepage , her English is dubbed by someone else . That fact makes me wonder why Japanese director Junichi Suzuki decided to make an English-speaking film entirely shot in America while the film 's locations and characters do not need to be American ( almost all the events on the `` highway '' scenes happen during one night ) . I know Mr. Suzuki has been living in USA since 2001 , but would n't it be a better choice for him to shoot a film in Japan where he had been working for a long time ? Anyway I agree with most of the previous reviewers who say `` Haunted Highway '' is a terrible film . It is , and I should have listened to .