Manhunter , What a great movie.Not only for the story and the hallmark acting.But also from a film making perspective as well.So many innovations.Concepts and styles that due to their genius , stay relevant today . Noonan and Cox bring the film to almost a 3 dimensional reality with performances that go far beyond what would be expected from a couple of ( at the time ) unknown actors.In my opinion , these guys really run the show . No disrespect to the outstanding work of William Petersen , who captures the role with a spooky resolve.He plays the role so well , That you realize as an actor , he 's really doing what he 's performing as an investagator.Getting in the heads of the people he 's pursuing/playing . The music is almost as much of a cast member as any of the actors.Music that is brilliant in its use and construction.If ever a soundtrack deserves a CD.Its this one ! Anyway , I have the basic `` Manhunter '' dvd , and the restored directors cut.I really enjoy the commentary's.The difference between the two , to me , is really a matter of the two different commentary's.The basic unit has the cast , Petersen , Noonan , Cox andAllen.The restored directors cut is Michael Mann going solo . Mann 's commentary is a collection of thoughts and techniques.Inspiration of character development and a lot of `` film school '' stuff that is of interest ... even to a layman ... The basic unit with the cast is a lot more interactive.No theydont exactly hoot it up , but it is slightly more entertainingas a behind the scenes deal goes . Mann 's comments are a plus in that he does enjoy the film andseems at times to be getting caught up in it.As a result , hehas moments where he doesnt speak , but instead watches the movie with the viewer.Kinda cool.You get to see the point hes making rather than having him talk over it as the moment goes by . So there ya go.Ya pays your money and ya takes your chances.But in either case , whichever you prefer , This is simply an excellent movie that even today , is a real thriller .