... written on a note pad as I viewed this film : ( Okay , so it 's an unusual way to review a film . Please be gentle . lol ) -- Finally , we get to see MJ work on his craft . Mesmerizing . Chills.-The world lost someone very special.-I wonder if he really and truly knew how he effected millions of people around the world with his humanity , music , dance and unmatched showmanship.-Pleasantly surprised that he sounds so great.-I 'm struck by his professionalism , perfectionism , artistry , creativity , kindness ... -His dancers obviously adore him.-Wow , what a show it would 've been . *smile-Michael Jackson , The Musical . Just a thought.-His legs are really skinny . haha-What a musical genius . Amazing.-The backup singer rapping on the `` Black or White '' number is terrible . haha-You really get a sense of who Michael is through these rehearsals - work ethic , professionalism , how he deals with and interacts with the people who work for him and so on.-Genius , indeed.-Still love that `` Billie Jean '' bassline . haha-eee hee hee ... ch'mon . : - ) -Yeah , MJ , the musical might be cool.-I wonder what it was like to be Michael Jackson.-He broke out some dance moves I had n't seen him do before . Cool.-I enjoy it when he freestyles on occasion.-He says , `` God Bless You '' a lot.-Wow , lot of people involved in this production . Look at that circle.-Still surprised at how good he sounds.-I miss him . *Tear-Money well spent . Glad I got my copy of `` This Is It '' on the day it came out.-It 's a finger-snapping , toe-tapping experience . Love it.-I 'd recommend it to everybody . Even to the haters.-I 've heard every song on this disc at least a thousand times . I 'd say I 'm a fan . haha-Do n't think I 've enjoyed watching someone working at his job so much in my life.-The extras are nice - especially the `` Memories of Michael '' . *Tears-Mr. Ortega 's story about his visit to Neverland - the elephant passing by the window - gave me a chuckle.-I never believed the ugly rumors about MJ and never will.-I will cherish this disc forever.- '' All for love , L-O-V-E '' . *Tears-R.I.P MJ