Living in the middle of Europe and being keen on US home workout videos , I always order mine from Amazon and I usually refuse to do so when a video receives low rates - or no rates at all . However , it must have been the Christmas spirit , I decided to give this one a try - and made a mistake.The saying `` less is sometimes more '' is definitely right when it comes to this tape . I 'm actually thinking of entirely giving up on the newer Firm tapes , since they seem to start using more and more fancy equipment making sure they include one of those `` special offer '' leaflets inside ; you should feel lucky you 've been given the chance at all . A true rip-off . They are using yet another type of a step-box kinda miracle here - no , it 's not even the Fanny Lifter anymore , it 's The Firm Box . Yay ! And even though it only says on the cover you 'll need a couple of dumbbells , they keep using some broomstick-like weight-thingy , too.Not only does the rip-off mentality make me sick , but so does the fact that while doing the exercises I was coming to realize that I did n't even need all that stuff after all.The instructor is terrible - the cueing is poor and I really thought the age of sickly skinny women looking like 12 year-old boys AND advertising fitness and a healthy way of life has long been over . This tape proves otherwise.The whole workout is about 30 minutes , including a warm-up and two streching sets - one after the lower body and another one after the abs workout . This latter one also goes to prove `` less is sometimes more '' - they seem to get so lost in different places to place different parts of that broomstick-like thing and including lower AND upper abs AND upper body exercises all in one breath that I found myself wondering what WAS going on after all.The reason I am still giving this tape two stars is that most of the lower body exercises are effective , even though I 'm sure that everyone that 's ever worked out has already been through all of them more than a few times . Most of them are those all-time favorites including mostly different types of leg-lifts.There are several great tapes out there - I 'd recommend trying those with Minna Lessing or `` Lift Weights To Lose Weight Part Two '' by Cathy Smith , but DEFINITELY not this one !