Oh man , where do I start ? Most reviews of this movie seem to range from love to hate , with very few between . I think I fall in the 'between ' area . Moon 44 was directed by Roland Emmerich , who also directed Universal Soldier , Stargate , Independance day , The Patriot , and Godzilla . Oh yeah , he also produced and wrote Moon 44 . One of the stars in the movie , Dean Devlin , also produced Stargate , Independence Day , and Godzilla with Emmerich.The movie starts off by telling us it 's the future , and all Earth 's resources have been depleted , so companies have taken to space to exploit moons for their mineral resources . Competition for these moons is pretty fierce , as the material recovered from these moons is very valuable , and can make or break a company . One company has seen numerous moons hit , shuttles lost , and their profits gone , so when their last moon is threatened by what appears to a conspirator inside the company , the board of directors send an investigator to determine the truth , played by b-movie veteran Michael Pare ' . He goes undercover , as a one of a group of prisoners who have flight experience as pilots are hard to come by . Apparently it 's going to be these guys job to protect the moon and the robotic equipment from raiders by flying around in modified helicopters . Since the terrain they will be flying in is difficult , each pilot must work closely with a navigator , who is situated within the station , giving specific directions to the pilot . One wrong move could mean death . The navigators are the typical computer nerdy bunch , and do n't mix well with the harden prisoners when they show up . One prisoner decides to rape his navigator in the shower , and though we do n't get to see it , I thought it was a pretty bad idea of the prisoner to do such a thing since the navigator would surely want revenge of some sort.So we have the problems between the navigators , the hard nosed drill instructor busting the prisoner/pilots chops ( especially Felix Stone , played by Michael Pare ' ) , and the slimy head of the station , Major Lee , played by Malcolm McDowell , another actor who spends an awful lot of time in b-movie hell . ( Check out the IMdB and you 'll see what I mean . ) The whistleblower , a navigator called Tyler , played by Devlin , gives Stone what he has and together they determine that the mysterious disappearance of the shuttles is really not that they got lost , but were misdirected by someone inside the organization . There 's some running around , some scenes that were supposed to build tension , etc. , and we start to find out the truth in what 's going on , the motive behind the theft of the shuttle . My biggest problem with this movie is that it seemed like too many threads of story line were dangled before us , much more than could be adequately resolved within the 98 minute running time of the movie . The major stuff was resolved , but the movie got bogged down in character development for characters that were not important to the main story . I mean really , who cares why the one navigator spiked some pilot 's lunch with drugs ? As a result , Malcolm McDowell and Michael Pare ' did n't get as many lines or as much screen time as they should have . The effects and sets are decent enough for this kind of movie , although they kept showing us scenes of a giant earthmoving device and I do n't know why ? To establish something , I guess ... and why do all mining bases/station of operations have to be so funky looking in these movies ? It 's not that they 're dirty , but just a lot of metal grated flooring , pipes and what not on the walls and ceiling , and extremely poor lighting . Maybe it 's a written rule somewhere.I think this could have been a better movie had it focused more on the main plot , and not presented all these secondary plots , spending a lot of time dealing with them , and basically going nowhere . And I was disappointed in the pan and scan full screen format . When will they learn ? Why not put both formats on the disc , and let the viewer choose ? And do n't look for any extras , not even a trailer or case insert with chapter stops . Nada , nil , none ... seeing as how this director went on to bigger ( but not necessarily better ) things , I would have thought he would have been interested in providing some insight to us about this movie through a commentary . Oh well ... A so so movie with an exceptionally poor release .