These days Uwe Boll has become something of a running joke among genre fans . With titles like Alone in the Dark and House of the Dead on his resume , the German director has become synomynous with hack work crapfests . Hallmarks of the weakest the horror genre can be.I suppose it 's somewhat callous of we the fans to relish so much the pursuit of Boll bashing , but if the man did n't so vigorously attempt to make excuses for and defend his work in interviews , I would be much more willing to cut him slack . It 's one thing to make a terrible movie and defend it through a delusional assumption that it 's somehow good , but another to try to cover yourself when you know you 're making dreck . I wait patiently for Uwe 's half hearted defenses of Bloodrayne.As in all of these half baked , video game based quickies , the plot is irrelevant . That 's not to say a descent story could n't have been produced about the character of Rayne , but it certainly fell flat on it 's face here . The script is the first culprit . It comes off about like something I wrote in tenth grade English class . Every cliche imaginable is on display . It 's as if screenwriter Guinevere Turner had an encylopedia of banalities . I suppose the excuse could be that she is new to this sort of piece but come on . The world is non-descript and full of things incongruous with it 's old world setting . But despite said anachronisms , the dialog is nothing but stiff , old-worldy speak with a humorous aversion to contractions in sentences . The various plot machinations that provide the impetus for the characters actions always remain vague and irrelevant . There is just so little here for the actors to work with.Not that they are trying to hard . No one here seemed to give a crap , which is understandable . There is humor to be had though in the clumsy , stilted line deliveries of many of the actors . It almost seemed as if some of them , ( Michael Madsen and Michele Rodriquez most obviously ) , were reading the dialog off a cue cards for the first time . Udo Kier and Billy Zane have pointlessly tiny rolls , ( though Zane manages to ladle on some of his particular oddball qualities ) . Ben Kingsley basically sits in the same chair for three quarters of the movie , barely reacting to anything anyone says to him . And Meatloaf , well..I find myself somewhat nonplused by his short sequence in the film . All I 'll say is that was one hell of a wig.Let 's see..was there anything good ? I will say that Kristanna Loken is definately hot . It 's hard to say if she can act because there is not dialog worth reciting and no director capable of pushing her in the direction of a performance , but she definately looks like I would imagine Rayne . The gore , particularly on the Unrated version , is rather vivid , if a little clumsy and unconvincing . There 's a big troll..who 's never really explained..and..uh..ah , hell , I just wish someone would give Uwe Boll some career advice . Maybe he could be a fight scene choreographer , he likes those , or he could try his hand at being a Production Assistant , work his way back to the top , relearn how to make a movie . Heck , he could be a garbage man for all I care , someone just tell him to stop making movies . In that way , all of mankind could benefit .