The Tiger Blade , in its first five minutes , began with promise . It opens up with a frenzied shoot-out in a hotel room that really grabbed me . The trouble is , as soon as the scene ended , the film loosened its grip abruptly and let me fall flat on my face.My biggest complaint is as follows : The entire advertised premise of the movie -- that of a hero using a legendary magical blade ( THE TIGER BLADE ! ! ) to defeat otherwise invincible enemies -- is almost ENTIRELY non-existent . Seriously , this sword gets about five minutes of screen time . Four and a half minutes ( if that , honestly ) are taken in retrieving it , then there 's about two fifteen second fight sequences with it . Okay , so I 'm not counting the four or so times it 's mentioned in dialogue , pushing it to a nice round five minutes and five seconds of mention in the entire film that IT 'S NAMED AFTER ! The TIGER BLADE of the title is barely in this movie , and what 's more it 's COMPLETELY UNNECESSARY to be there in the first place ! The story boils down to this . A freedom fighter escapes from prison to act out a plan that will help him support his cause back home . Some dudes working for the government want to stop him.There were also more subplots than I could keep up with , characters and names kept popping in and out of the story and dialogue , and basically if I attempt to make sense of ANYTHING in this movie I simply CAN'T.And why bother including this TIGER BLADE scenario if ONLY ONE ENEMY IS GOING TO ACTUALLY DIE FROM THE SWORD ? I 'm sorry , I 'm really hung up on this point . So I 'll move on.The action , outside of that opening gun battle , was completely uninspired too . Typical kung fu , jumping around , dodging , blocking , kicking , etc . There was a very creative GO-KART chase on a highway moving around semi-truck trailers and such which would fit great in a Stephen Chow film , but this was near the end of The Tiger Blade and there had been no concessions to any kind of comedy up to this point so I just have no idea what anyone working on this film was thinking.The Tiger Blade was a completely unfocused film in every way . It 's rare that I get fired up over a bad film , but being lied to in the premise has really got me going . I watched this movie expecting an action film with a mystic twist full of strange enemies and over the top action . Instead I got a mishmash of a cop film with a bunch of extraneous nonsense and garbage tacked onto with a mere MENTION of mysticism which somehow earned its way into the forefront of the film 's advertisement even right down to its title.Even if it had been titled correctly , and if the bit about the sword had n't been embellished to make it seem as if it actually comprised the entire movie , The Tiger Blade would have still been awful . I just would n't have been tricked into watching it .