The packaging on this DVD set is not perfect , but the abundance of `` Extras '' is astounding . The interviews and documentaries where incredible , taking their time , and being a very thorough dissection of the events and decisions leading up to the ultimate theatrical releases of each of the movies . I found the making of Alien and Alien 3 the most interesting of the documentaries.Of course , I have a bias towards liking the documentary for Alien because it is by far my favorite of the four movies , but Alien 3 's was equally interesting because it showed the corporate decisions that hindered the ability for David Fincher , in my opinion one of the great cinematic directors today , from making a movie that could captivate its audience . True , Alien 3 did n't live up to it 's genre expectations-true , it was n't scary , but it was a visual treat and the mood and desolate atmosphere invoked by the movie is notable . I think in time , people will come to regard it as an sci-fi art film-certainly not the best Alien film if you 're a sci-fi or horror buff , but in my opinion should n't be written off as an awful film ( and I 'm very picky ) .The special editions of each of the movies where better than the theatrical releases , except Alien Resurrection which was more interesting than wholly necessary . Although Alien 's theatrical release was n't as good as the special edition , I prefer it because I like the long meandering shots that Ridley had of the ships ( notably missing in the SE version ) as it adds a emptiness to the feel of the ship-space is supposed to be cold and quiet.This is my judgement of the four movies ( special editions ) :1 ) Alien - Perfect and brilliant . The new shots of the Alien are great if suttle.2 ) Aliens - One of the best action movies ever . The additional scenes interrupt the tension a little and make the movie really long , but still very much enjoyable.3 ) Alien 3 - Gothic and somewhat depressing , but is interesting despite not being truly frightening-it 's hard to care for murderers and rapists being picked off by a dog-like alien . Fincher scenes Fincher was forced to take out really helped the movie a great deal . The SE version is better than the Theatrical Release.4 ) Alien 4 - Designed for Teenagers . This feels the most like a Holliwood movie with one liners that the first Alien movie would dare use-almost a parady of itself . It makes a good summer flick , but not exactly repeatable , and definitely pales in comparison to the first and second , and even the third.The Worst parts of all 4 movies put together would still be like Citizen Cane compared the abortion of a movie , Paul Anderson put out this summer `` Alien Vs . Predator ''