In 1988 , film director Stewart Raffill , released the infamous product placement induced film ; Mac and Me ( the E.T . Rip-off ) . 22 years later , he releases this UNREALISTIC film . first of all , the acting was not very professional . 2nd , the plot makes no sense . and 3 , none of the cast members are famous . I just do n't understand how anybody can come up with such a very dumb film like this , or why movie theaters even bothered to accept this sorry excuse for a motion picture.It is no surprise that most of the videos on youtube received so many negative comments . the trailer was n't very appealing . This movie had very little advertising and promotion . many say that it 's too similar to 'School Gyrls ' . I would n't know because I 've never the movie . I did see standing ovation and was quite sure that the unknown cast members did not know what they were doing . when I saw the movie , others who came to see it left the cinema within minutes of start time . I stayed throughout the whole movie to see if it got any better and ... ..IT DID N'T ! ! ! the one star i gave is exclusively for DaCav5 and their song ; 'The Runway ' . that is the only part of the film THAT WAS ACTUALLY DONE RIGHT . the rest was 100 % poorly done . most of the music was tolerable , but was n't compatible with the dance numbers . The one number that I found to be most outrageously pathetic was the Dream video with the firefighters . I do n't believe that anybody would want to give it a thumbs up . Also , the scene in the retirement home was blatantly UNREALISTIC.Some scenes in the move were also UNREALISTIC . A frog would n't be able to survive in soup that is as hot as 47 degrees Celsius . Also , nobody can train insects to be obedient . And there is a scene when everyone is getting out of the taxi . 20 passengers CAN NOT fit into the backseat of a car . IT 'S IMPOSSIBLE ! ! ! There are more UNREALISTIC scenes , but I 'm only mentioning those that make the least sense.the one scene that made me cringe was the horse race betting scene . the girl just walks into the place and security does n't immediately do anything about it . she even tries to place a bet but is told no because of her age . It surprised me that nobody other than the cashier and the security officer told the girl to leave . I think that the scene was uncalled for and ... ..UNREALISTIC.There WAY are too many things wrong with this movie . The cast did not do a very good job . Despite the epic failure , the cast and crew are still full of excitement . they are way too optimistic in my opinion . Many positive reviews are either from those who were involved in making this movie , or those who are in desperate need for mental help . I would n't recommend it to anybody of any age , PERIOD ! As for the `` Generic '' cast members , I hope they are never seen or heard from in movies again . The privilege to be an actor/actress is a given and none of these cast members have any right to be in a movie.So once again , Stewart Raffill has managed to create another bad movie . only this time , he has made a movie that has the worst opening in all of United States history . the only thing that I 'm glad Standing ovation lacks is excessive product placement.Standing Ovation ? No . it 's more like The 5 Talentless Girls . A movie that is UNREALISTIC.if you desire to watch a movie that is junior high age , I recommend The Diary of a Wimpy Kid , Stand By Me , or Now and Then ( oh how I miss Gabby Hoffman and Christina Ricci ) . If a musical is what you desire a musical , wathc High School Musical ( sure it 's annoying , but at least it 's professionally done and REALISTIC ) .