I 've got all the `` Soap '' DVD sets , but this is by far the worst . By the time the series came to it 's fourth season , too many good characters had left , some really dumb ones had been written in , and the plots were nothing like as entertaining as in former years . The main casualty was the loss of Robert Guillaume as Benson in the last few episodes of Season 3 , his ultra-dry wit was never equalled or replaced by the lack-lustre Saunders . Secondly we also lost Diana Canova as Corrine , who was one of the better actors among the younger generation of the cast , and had been particularly effective in several emotional scenes that featured her character.All the best and funniest plotlines such as Chester 's memory loss , Corrinne 's possessed baby , Billy and the Sunnies and Burt 's UFO abduction ( ok that one was pushing it a bit ! ) are distant memories . The dramatic stories were also much better , with Billy 's courtroom battle for custody of his daughter as a fine example . Now , with such meagre stories as Jodie being turned into an old Jewish guy and Jessica lost in the revolution , the series struggles to maintain the viewers interest.After greedily consuming all the episodes in the first three season DVDs - sometimes in batches of 3 or 4 at a time - I really could n't rustle up much interest in seeing all of the Season 4 episodes after watching the first few . With Jessica not able to interact with any of the other cast due to being lost in the jungle with the dire El Puerco , and Mary turning into an alcoholic ( what a horrible storyline to give one of the warmest and most level-headed characters of the whole show ) , you just do n't feel that this is the same story any more.If you are a fan or just want a nostalgia trip , I would recommend buying the first 3 seasons and then retiring on a high . This last DVD set does nothing but drag the series into the mud . There is n't even an end or conclusion to any plotlines , as the series was not expected to end here . And if you watch this season , you 'll know why it did .