Before Kathryn Bigelow got hitched to James Cameron , she was making films that you would swear where by the hand of her future hubby . Near Dark happens to look like a James Cameron horror movie , and saying this should not discredit Bigelow because here we see a female director on flying form . Near Dark not only has Bigelow at the helm , but Eric Red produced and wrote it . The cinematographer is Adam Greenberg who got the Terminator into the film can and we also have two other Cameron favorites in the mix - Bill Paxton and Lance Henriksen . So if 1980s are early 1990s Cameron is your cup of blood then Near Dark is exactly what you want to see.This movie is dirt cheap but done so well that it can only be described as a very beautiful motion picture film to look at even though it is set in the dusty mid-west . Basically it is an amalgamation of cowboys , vampires , rockers , bikers , vampire sickness and love . This could have been a really cheesy B-Movie if it was n't for such a catchy script , set design , LIGHTING ! , special effects , acting and direction . The music is the kind of early synthesizer stuff that John Carpenter would play until the wee hours of the dawn . Basically the story revolves around a farm hand that gets bit , but not bleed , and ends up bonding with a small family gang of vampires until he can prove that he can make that first kill . In meantime his dad and younger sister are combing the state looking for him . The film is not so quickly moving but like Bigelow 's `` Point Break '' there is enough substance and action here to keep you going with several extremely memorable scenes - namely the bar slaughter , a shoot out involving daylight penetrating bullet holes in the walls and the ending with a kid bursting into flames as the sun comes up . For 1987 this horror packs a punch and deserves its cult status . Bill Paxton 's character is a riot and Lance Henriksen has never looked more disfigured . The film may falter at times into very weird love scenes and some strange exsanguinations finales , but for all intensive purposes this is really a superb horror movie that is certainly worthy of repeat viewings . It is also pretty bloody at times and not for the squeamish.Near Dark gets a really big thumb up from this reviewer who has seen it plenty of times since the somewhat unnoticed cinema release . If you have not seen Near Dark and are anyway interested in the horror genre then go now to the DVD store and do not look back . Its hits that 80s horror era very nicely and you can be proud of it in your collection . A cult classic if there ever was one .