Then we have this one . Suffice it to say , I was not happy . For example : The Death of Captain Kirk : With Kirk out of the way , no more adventures with the original crew . Even if the other characters were assembled , Kirk 's absence would be painfully obvious.The Destruction of the Enterprise-D : This was the most visible symbol of Star Trek : The Next Generation , proof that Gene could catch lightning in a bottle twice . With its destruction , the biggest example of his influence also goes up in flames.The Destruction of Data : And let 's be honest here , with that cockamamie emotion chip , the Data we all knew is dead . Data was Gene 's window on humanity , his way to view it from outside and comment on it . That window has now been shattered.The Death of Rene Picard : This is a bit more subtle , but remember the last shot in the episode `` Family '' , with Rene sitting under the tree looking up at the stars ? Once upon a time , that little boy was Gene Roddenberry , dreaming of sailing the stars in some sort of spaceship like an interstellar Horatio Hornblower . Killing Rene ( by fire , no less ! ) seems to be saying `` The dream is dead , and we 're now using the corpse to stoke our own fire . `` Couple this with the numerous , and oftentimes blatant , violations in the established continuity throughout the film , which I 'll get into later , and you have the distinct impression that the powers that be , which in this case are frequently identified as Rick Berman and Michael Piller , with Ron Moore and Brannon Braga being identified as co-conspirators ( I do n't know why Jeri Taylor is generally left off the hook ; maybe she 's given fans a better impression than the others ) really do n't give a flip about what the fans feel or what their opinions are . They just expect us to be good little Trekkies and accept whatever product they put out , regardless of quality , just because it has the Star Trek name on it . For instance,1 ) The Continuity Breaches : Scotty 's presence on the Enterprise-B ( dialogue from `` Relics '' , Act I , when Jimmy Doohan looks at Riker and says , '' The Enterprise ? I should'a known ! I bet Jim Kirk pulled her out of mothballs himself and came lookin ' for me ! '' pretty clearly established that Scotty knew nothing about what happened to Kirk , or anything about the Enterprise-B ; all of this was known to Berman , who hoped that `` no one would notice '' Shyeah ! Right ! ) , The appearance of the Enterprise-B ( remember that sculpture in the observation lounge ? That showed the Enterprise-B as a straight Excelsior class vessel ) The appearance of Data 's emotion chip ( in the two episodes in which we saw it , `` Brothers '' and `` Descent pt II '' , it was depicted as a small c-clip , and was not functional when Data , who was about to destroy it until talked out of it by Geordi , puts it away in what looks like a watch case . When we see it in Generations , it 's grown to a two-inch square contraption suspended in what appears to be some sort of magnetic field , which is generally a bad idea for computer components . Plus , instead of installing it in Data 's neck , as Dr. Soong originally intended to do , Geordi installs it in his head ! By the way , should n't one of them have notified the captain before they undertook what amounts to reprogramming the ship 's operations officer ? ) The performance of the Enterprise when attacked by the Duras sisters ( whatever happened to backup systems ? the aft torpedo tubes ? rotating the shield frequencies ? ejecting the core ? ) In my calmer moments , I 've acknowledged that if you took away the Star Trek elements from Generations , then it was a pretty good movie . Unfortunately , we ca n't do that . It has all those Star Trek elements , and that includes thirty years of baggage to lug along behind , and several million volunteer sherpas more than happy to point out where you screwed up in Scene 23.Combine these , and more ( I only touched on the highlights ) with the credibility gaps ( whoever heard of commissioning a ship that only had half her systems installed ? And about that bit about how you could n't get into the Nexus with a ship . How did Soran first get in there ? In a ship . How did Kirk get in there ? In a ship . It did n't matter that the ship was blasted around them , they were in the Nexus , which came across as the ultimate desperation device ; just throw it up on the screen , and the only explanation of why it does what it does is that it 's a temporal anomaly ( an explanation that has been sliced , diced , and turned into fifty-seven different types of pretzel by various posters on AOL and BBS 's across the wonderful land of ours ) . Even spatial rifts have to follow rules , and the Nexus violated just about every one , with the exception that it was strange . It 's impossible to be a self-respecting viewer and just accept some of this stuff . ) and you have thirty years of pretty consistent continuity tied up into a very ugly knot , and a very touching series finale overshadowed by a very confusing , muddled , and sometimes insulting , film .