It 's the morning of Jan. 22 , 1879 , and most of the British soldiers left behind to garrison the small makeshift hospital/supply depot of Rorke 's Drift probably consider themselves lucky . It looks like they wo n't have to fight in this campaign . Their comrades who have marched on to Isandlwana will whip the Zulus in a few days and the army will march back to a hero 's welcome at Capetown ! Little do they know that an unforseen turn of events will have them fighting for their lives before the day is out . This turn of events , and how the men respond to it , are the subject of the movie `` Zulu '' . As the men are going about their mundane tasks , the astounding news comes that the British force at Isandlwana has been almost wiped out . An overwhelming force of Zulus are now headed for Rorke 's Drift . Next comes the realization that it 's too late to try and escape . The oncoming Zulus are almost certainly so close that they 'd overtake them before they could reach safety . Their only chance is to use whatever time remains to fortify their little outpost and hold out until they are rescued . If all this is n't bad enough , Boer calvary refuse their desperate pleas for help , and native troops desert en masse just as the attack begins , leaving their just completed perimeter dangerously thin . But the officers , neither of whom have seen combat before , refuse to despair . Struggling against fear and self doubt , they make adjustments in the face of the enemy attack , pushing themselves and their men to the limits of endurance . The men , though aware of the seeming hopelessness of the situation , remain resolute . The Zulus , too , press on , refusing to quit even though taking terrible casualties from superior firepower . As the battle continues , truths about human character are revealed . Some of the most unlikely individuals show themselves to be capable of extraordinary heroism . Others find out how stupid and superficial their biases are when judging a persons true worth . One or two find that they ca n't stand up to the situation . In the end , the British are rescued . But the movie is n't really about victory or defeat . `` Zulu '' is a visual hymn of praise to courage , unselfishness , and dogged determination in the face of mortal danger . Anyone who appreciates these qualities will love the movie !