2002 's `` The Bourne Identity '' is an absolutely thrilling ( if loose ) adaption of Robert Ludlum 's 1980 spy novel . Its cinematic success has launched two equally thrilling sequels to date , featuring Matt Damon as former CIA assassin Jason Bourne.A young man in a wet suit , with two bullet holes in his back , is rescued by the crew of a fishing boat in the Mediterranean Sea . The young man recovers aboard the vessel , but has no memory of who he is or how he came to be in the water . His only clue is the number of a Swiss bank account implanted in a metal tube in his hip.The man travels to Zurich and reaches the bank . His account number provides him access to a safety deposit box , filled with a variety of foreign currencies , a small pile of passports , and a handgun . The top passport is an American one , in the name of Jason Bourne , with an address in Paris . The young man goes to the American Embassy in Zurich , where the staff unexpectedly tries to apprehend him and the young man unexpectedly displays astonishing fighting skills in escaping the Embassy.Outside the Embassy , Bourne bribes a rootless young German female named Marie ( played with subtle depth by Franka Potente ) to drive him to Paris . Along the way , the two will bond over the mystery of Bourne 's identity . The mystery will deepen in Paris as Bourne realized he is the target of a murderous agency effort to clean up a mistake and as he realizes that keeping Marie alive is now a personal misssion . `` The Bourne Identity '' features fast-moving , almost breathless action , lots of spy high-tech and technique , and enough convoluted mystery for at least three movies ( and counting ) . Matt Damon nicely underplays Bourne as a confused but driven man , aware that the clock is ticking in a game he does n't fully understand . The movie narrative proceeds on parallel tracks , as Bourne flees across France , while his nominal CIA boss ( played with understated urgency by Chris Cooper ) and another CIA chieftain ( played with sweaty near-panic by Brian Cox ) throw both CIA operatives and law enforcement in his path . Clive Owen has a nice cameo as another CIA assassin ; Julia Stiles is introduced in her recurring role as a Paris operative . The climax of the movie is Bourne 's dramatic entrance into a CIA safe house in Paris , there to learn the truth about his identity . `` The Bourne Identity '' is very highly recommended as the thrilling introduction to the Bourne series . The Extended Edition features a new beginning and ending to the movie designed to the events of 9/11 , which somewhat pre-empted the Cold War context of the movie . This DVD version also features some nice extras on the making of the movie .