After giving this movie a bit of thought and and having spoken about it with a university professor friend of mine , who called it `` profound , '' I can not help but think of the deeper , more underlying consequences of this movie and what it is trying to say . I will try to grasp some major points in a nutshell:1 ) Us Welsh would rather be singing than fighting for King and Country any day . Yes , that is subtly portrayed here , but when duty calls , well , we fight.2 ) The Zulus are portrayed as a proud people , who will listen to and obey their leader . ( Here , in this movie , an old man/chief on top of a mountain , basically directing the battle below . ) And they fight bravely most likely to defend their homeland , their dignity , and their self-respect . ( Does that sound like any other battles of which you may have heard ? ) And 3 ) That despite our differences : racial , cultural , spiritual , please name any divisive element , as you well know that humankind can , that human beings can , may , and will transcend their differences , if they are able to unite in song . It sounds rather simple , does n't it ? Or perhaps even a little naive , but , I think , after multiple viewings and thinking about what the message of this movie is really trying to convey , perhaps it is just that : we can unite , we can be brothers , if maybe we could listen to what we each of us have to offer each other . And here in this movie , that message of brotherhood and understanding is conveyed by the medium of song . At least , that is how these `` warriors '' come to a conclusive `` truce , '' that is , at least a cessation of their hostilities ( and then , most likely , a return home to the wife and kids ) . The Welsh regiment stands strong with a rousing version of `` Men of Harlech , '' and the Zulus sing one of their songs , which , I am sorry to say , I can not describe by title.This movie IS British . It does have a message to say . Anti-war ? Yes ! Anti-futility ? Yes ! Pro-song ? A double yes on that one ! There is some fine ensemble acting here . Michael Caine in his first cinematic role ; Welsh actor Stanley Baker looking and acting like a more serious John Cleese ; James Booth as the representative English malcontent , Hook , bitter and caustic on the outside , fighting spirit on the inside ; the late , great character actor , Jack Hawkins , and some other fine ( and non-British ) acting talent . How can one be disappointed with such acting ? And , of course , who else to `` wrap up '' a seemingly , more-or-less , Welsh saga , than to have Richard Burton provide final commentary as epilogue ? And , of course , there is the stunning scenery of South Africa filmed on location . No , it 's not Bala , arguably the most famous lake in Wales , as one Welsh regimental soldier laments , with the ground `` not good enough to hold a man in his grave , '' but nevertheless stunning.And , music by John Barry , too ( of Bond/007 fame ) . Ca n't beat that with a stick.Buy or rent this movie , and you will understand what I mean . Cymru am byth !