Visually and atmospherically , & quot ; Interview With The Vampire & quot ; is a beautiful film and it is great to see that this DVD from Warner Home Video is bringing the film to life like never before . In a direct comparison to the 1997 DVD release of the film - it was one of the first DVDs in the market , actually - it becomes obvious that technology has made big strides . While the image quality of the original release was outstanding at the time , the new transfer exhibits a notably higher definition . Although the master from which this DVD has been created appears to be the same that was used for the DVD release three years ago , the film looks remarkably better on this DVD . The movie is presented in a 16x9 enhanced widescreen presentation in a 1.78:1 widescreen aspect ratio.The color reproduction is more faithful to the film 's original presentation without any signs of discoloration . The level of detail is incredible and edges are sharply defined without the signs of edge-enhancement that were evident in the earlier release . Blacks are deep and always maintain enough detail without breaking up . The highlights are beautifully rendered while contrasts are perfectly balanced , restoring all of Jordan 's ominously dark and atmospheric imagery . Color reproduction is very faithful with strong hues and tones , never bleeding , and free of noise . The compression of the movie is virtually flawless without any signs of compression artifacts in the presentation , leaving all the details , and colors fully intact . Interestingly however , the menus found on this disc , are riddled with compression artifacts like pixelation and banding , which is quite surprising given the overall stellar presentation of the movie itself.The disc contains 5.1 channel Dolby Digital audio tracks in English and French as well as an English DTS audio track . Just as in the video department , Warner Home Video brings out some spectacular quality in the movie 's audio presentation . The Dolby Digital track is beautifully an engaging without the slightest signs of noise or distortion . With its good use of the surrounds , the track exhibits a beautiful spatial integration and flawless imaging . Even the subtlest ambient effects are evident in the presentation , adding to the haunting beauty of the film . A good bass extension adds to the movie 's visceral punch , which helps giving some of the more dramatic action scenes the necessary impact.The DTS track that can be found on the disc is equally impressive and actually manages to outperform the Dolby Digital mix on a number of occasions . The dynamics of the track , the clarity and natural reproduction of the score is simply breathtaking . The spatial integration creates a sound image that is extremely lively and boasts of the most subtle sonic nuances and timbres . Dialogues are well integrated in all versions and always understandable.Director Neil Jordan has also contributed a commentary track to this release , which is very engaging and full of valuable information . Jordan covers a plethora of aspects surrounding the production of the movie . Without notable pauses , Jordan easily coves the entire 2 hours of the movie 's running length and manages to remain interesting , entertaining and informative over the entire course . You will walk away from this commentary with a new-found appreciation for the movie and the people involved . The faithfulness and efforts that went into making this the atmospheric film it ultimately is , is impressive and full of exciting tidbits.When starting up & quot ; Interview With The Vampire & quot ; a 1-minute introduction will greet you , which helps to set the right mood and expectations for the film . The introduction can also be found in the disc 's & quot ; Special Features & quot ; section where you will also find & quot ; In The Shadow Of The Vampire , & quot ; a new 30-minute documentary featuring interesting interviews with Anne rice , director Neil Jordan , Tom Cruise , Brad Pitt , Kirsten Dunst , Antonio Banderas , Stan Winston and many others . Not only does it cover different aspects of the movie and the novels themselves , but also the peripheral area of vampirism in general . It is a great piece that you should n't miss to watch . The disc also contains the movie 's theatrical trailer and a link to a special feature on Warner 's website , called & quot ; History Of The Vampire. & quot ; Warner Home Video has prepared a spectacular package for & quot ; Interview With The Vampire & quot ; with this DVD . Given the quality of all the content it is surprising Warner managed to squeeze four audio tracks in top notch quality on the disc , together with a beautiful anamorphic transfer and even supplements like the documentary . All in all , this DVD turns out to be an incarnation of the movie like you have never experienced it , so do n't miss out on this one .