There are some movies these days that just do n't stand a chance when people notice something or someone about them that they do n't like . Given today 's angst-filled audience 's hypercritical viewpoints on EVERYTHING , there are shows that could literally shine as works of Hollywood art , yet will probably be villified into obscurity . AVP ( Aliens versus Predator ) may just be one such movie.STORY-5 StarsFor any of you who are reading this review and have n't yet seen AVP , I give you fair warning that the next few paragraphs give away several spoilers and might hamper your enjoyment , so you might consider skipping over it to the next section.The year is 2004 . Low Earth Orbit . There 's an object nearby , silhouetted in sunlight and coming closer . Memories of another story come floating to the fore . That shape ... so familiar ... is it ... a queen ? It passes under your field of view and you discover that , no , it 's actually a satellite and the logo on the side identifies it as belonging to the Weyland corporation . Floating high above the Antarctic , it notices something and decides to relay that information to the satellite tracking station . The attendants check the data and find a heat bloom approximately 2000 feet underneath the ice . Nothing at all should be there . Curious ... Over the course of the next few days , a team is assembled from all over the world , including a guide , a drilling team , security and archeologists , to begin an expedition , led by CEO Weyland himself ( played by Lance Henriksen ) , whose company is a pioneer in the field of robotics , to discover what exactly this potential prize is . The only thing known about it is that it 's a pyramid of gigantic size and the markings on it suggest it may have been constructed by the world 's first civilized culture . The job is rushed , against the advice of the guide , on the assumption that other companies are on their way as well , in an effort to be the first to stake a claim.When they get there , they discover a path already made to the site that was n't there the day before , set at a perfect 30 degree angle . No one on the team understands how this can be , because there is no technology found on Earth that could possibly have dug to such a depth in that short a time . The mystery deepens.On site , they enter the pyramid and discover a sacrificial chamber , which heightens the brooding sense of uneasiness among the crew . Something dark happened here in the past . Further in , they uncover a sarcophagus bearing a lock based on the Long Count , the ancient Aztec calendar . Inside , there are three objects that nobody can identify . They look completely out of place , in that they appear much more advanced technologically than the surrounding architecture indicates they should be . Removal of these objects initiates a periodic shifting of the pyramid 's interior , cutting off the team members from each other , turning the search into a hunt for a way out to safety . In addition , the team finds that they are now being hunted by two other species of creatures , neither of which are from this world . And both of them are definitely hostile.Over the course of the movie , it 's discovered that the first species of extra-terrestrial , colloquially known as Predators , found Earth many thousands of years ago and taught humanity the rudiments of civilization . In return , they demanded subjects to submit themselves to become hosts for the second species of creature . These creatures were used as quarry for a hunt , which purpose was to usher in the Predator adolescents to adulthood ; a rite of passage in order to be accepted as full members of their specific clan . This pyramid was their ritual training ground , used for just that purpose . In the event that the Aliens got out of control ( a likely scenario given their instinctive aggressiveness ; indeed sometimes it was hard to tell who was hunting who ) , the entire site was obliterated.The Aliens end up getting out of control.The guide ( the last surviving human ) ends up teaming up with the last surviving Predator and narrowly escape the destruction of the site just ahead of the blast wave . Once outside , the human is marked with the symbol of the Predator 's clan , thereby being accepted into it , and they cooperate to bring down the Queen Alien . During the battle , the Predator is killed . His corpse is brought onboard his clan 's ship for his return to the homeworld and the human ends up going her own way , now ready for whatever the future will bring.The last scene aboard the Predator 's starship is that of the dead adolescent , lying on a slab next to a porthole looking out over the Earth.He 's at peace ... ... and then his chest suddenly ruptures outward , exposing the head of a newborn Alien . Segway into 'AVP : Requiem'.End of SpoilerThis movie and its sequel came about because of a short scene in Predator 2 , where Danny Glover 's character , Los Angeles police detective Lt. Hardiman , entered a hidden Predator clan ship in search of a member of the clan which had butchered his entire squad . On one wall , there hung several skulls ; trophies of kills that clan had made . One of the skulls was that of a warrior Alien.I remember all of the hushed whispering that erupted when that scene showed in the theater and myself thinking `` Oh yeah ! '' . Soon after , Dark Horse Comics starting running a series involving confrontations between the Predators and Aliens set in the future , when humanity had branched out to the local stars . I knew then that something was going to come of that and was n't at all surprised when AVP trailers started broadcasting during prime time tv.And yes , when I saw this movie in theaters , I enjoyed it immensely . Now that the extended cut has come out on DVD , I enjoy it even more.This movie got a bad rap because 1 . ) Paul Anderson directed it and 2 . ) there were n't a lot of big-name actors starring in it.I remind everyone that none of either the Alien or Predator movies starred first-tier actors when they originally aired ( except for the very first Predator , and that one was touted as being a 'Schwarzenegger movie ' typical of the style of 1980s shoot 'em up action films ) , yet all of those actors did first-rate jobs with the tasks they were given . 'Alien ' was Ridley Scott 's second directorial effort and 'Aliens ' was also Jim Cameron 's second time as a first-unit director . 'Alien 3 ' was David Fincher 's first feature film after a bout of directing music videos . The purpose for this was so that viewers would focus on the stories rather than who was in it . They succeeded . Despite the various negative reviews , each of the movies ( depending on which one it was ) has collected a cult following that 's stood the test of time for the past thirty years . This movie and its sequel allow both franchises to survive on their own , without having the fame factor of either Sigourney Weaver or Arnold Schwarzenegger propping them up , because the story behind each is bigger than either of the characters those two actors portray.VISUALS-5 StarsThere may be some scenes in this movie that seem somewhat cliched , but these scenes are in there to remind folks exactly which background universe the story takes place in . AVP also took the characters in the show and made them more than just faceless , nameless victims of the slaughter and I applaud the director for doing so . Some people also decry the use of CGI in today 's movies . I hate to say it ( well ... no , not really ) , but CGI is here to stay . Might as well get used to it . I personally have no problems with it . I remember the old way they used to do special effects , and the photorealistic CGI visuals look a LOT more natural in the scene . The ones in this movie look awesome . Ian Whyte , the actor portaying the main Predator , has gotten the movements of the creature down exactly . I watch this and it reminds me of Kevin Peter Hall 's movements in the original 1987 show starring Arnold.SOUND-5 StarsSound in movies these days has only gotten better with digital clarity and the score and ambient effects in this show fit both franchises to the letter.SPECIAL FEATURES-5 StarsThis DVD includes both the theatrical version and the unrated extended cut on disc 1 . The special features included on disc 2 are pretty meaty and detail the production of this movie from start to finish . It also shows the comic series AVP is based on from Dark Horse , the 'Monsters in Miniature by Todd McFarlane ' featurette and the AVP HBO special.OVERALL-5 StarsDespite what many might say , I feel that this IS a worthy addition to both the Alien and the Predator backdrops . It shows us that we may not actually be alone in this universe and what we come across out there might not be that friendly . Prepare yourselves for what you may find.Two Thumbs Up .