I 've been anxiously waiting to sink my teeth into this horror comedy since it arrived at my house a few weeks ago . The premise is pure genius ! It 's a movie about killer ... sheep . Amazingly the filmmakers were able to contract special effects wizards , Weta Workshops ( the lads who did work on the Lord of the Rings Trilogy ) to create the `` Were-Sheep '' designs . Did I mention it was about killer sheep ? The recipe for this film is practically flawless.Too bad the final product did n't turn out as nearly as tasty as the recipe sounded . I wanted to love this film , I really did . For the first 25 minutes I was entertained . Yet once all the sheepish mayhem began I could n't wait for it to end . The movie is simply boring . It has one simple gag ... cuddly sheep turning evil and killing people is funny . Do n't get me wrong it 's hilarious when it first starts , but the movie is a one trick pony.The paper thin plot consists of Henry ( Nathan Meister ) coming back to his family 's sheep farm to sell his portion to his older brother Angus ( Peter Feeney ) . However , Angus has been performing genetic experiments to create some form of super sheep without his brother 's knowledge . Of course said experiments go horribly wrong and the results are the evil Were-sheep ( unbeknownst to Angus ) . Toss in some hippie environmentalists , who inadvertently trigger the sheep invasion , simmer for an hour and wait for it to end . Seriously , this movie is n't meant to be scary so it needed to bring the funny . Unfortunately , after a few hilarious scenes in the first act , we are left with unfunny ( not to mention mundane ) gore effects . For all you gorehounds , I hope you like seeing sheep rip out intestines because it 's an effect that gets reused ad nauseam . The final straw was that the human sized Were-Sheep were utterly silly looking . Oh , and apparently , once you turn into a Were-Sheep all you can do is punch people in the face with a vicious right hook ( you 'll see what I mean ) . I might have been able to forgive some of this if the grand finale was extraordinary , but the resolution was pretty awful.Black Sheep desperately tries to recreate the same greatness as Peter Jackson 's earlier work such as Bad Taste and Dead Alive . This movie is nowhere near that level of entertainment . If you find basic gore gags and sophomoric farting jokes to be funny then this movie might be for you . I 'm not above low brow humor ( that 's an understatement ) but this movie bored me to tears . A great premise does not make a good movie and Black Sheep is certainly proof of that.Final Grade : D+