I rented this video at the library over a year ago and absolutely hated it , I thought I would give it another try , glad I did . Lisa Kay leads your through a 30 minute cardio workout along with 4 fellow Firm Master Instructors including Libby who shows beginner modifications . You will use the Firm Fanny Lifter for this one , but a normal step will do if you do n't have it . Light weights are also used in some sections.You will start out with a simple warmup then you go into your first cardio segment which is low impact . You will see marches , heel digs , step squats , calf pumps , lunges , knee lifts , all with simple arm movements . Some of the moves are performed with hops or jumps but you can leave those out if you prefer.The next segment is step aerobics with light dumbells , I used 3 pounders for this . You will do heel digs and heel rocks with bicep curls , straddles with modified upright rows , lunges with tricep kickbacks , lunges off the back of the step with rhomboid pinches , all on the step . Squats with hammer curls on the floor finish out this set.More step follows , this time without weights . This segment includes basic steps , A-steps , hamstring curls , knee lifts , L-steps , over the tops , and some jacks off the step.For the next segment you will fully assemble the Fanny Lifter and do some power moves with light weights . You will do overhead presses while tapping your foot on top of the platform , then you will move into squats with variations , step squats , alternating side to side , pulsing , etc . Surprisingly I was quite winded by the end of this segment.The next segment is more step aerobics , this routine includes straddles , side leg lifts , over the tops into squats , lunges off the back , and press steps into tap overs . I liked this segment.The final part is more 4 limb aerobics with light weights using the step for part of the routine , though most of it is done on the floor . You will see grapevines with rhomboid pinches , step touches with bicep curls , knee lifts first on the floor , then the option to move to the step if you want.Time to start cooling down , in this segment you will see simple moves such as marches , step touches , hamstring curls , tri-stars , sambas and side lunges.Overall , I really liked this workout , it might take a few tries to get it all down but once you do it is a nice routine with variety . Lisa Kay is a pleasant instructor who seems to be having fun herself . It is better suited for beginner/intermediate levels , advanced wo n't get much of a workout with this one . I think it 's a keeper .