Let me just start by saying that I am very open to different styles of films and different approaches . I am also a very big fan of the genres of horror or suspence . Having said that , this film basically took the approach of shooting several incoherent scenes ( since when is it terrifying to just shake the camera around and use lame camecorder type effects to create terror ) of it 's protagonist walking around or laying in bed . Trust me when I say that those who liked this film must have been drunk , and basically chalked up the shotty story to their inebriation ( sorry folks no one understands this film , even sober ) or simply trying to rectify to themselves their having wasted money and time on this movie.I wo n't go into what it 's about too much as you can read the other reviews on that . Let me say that this film fails in all of the following areas.Suspense-there is n't much suspense over the initial 45 minutes of the protagonist simply acting weird , thinking weird things , or dreaming of weird things . So what ? Story-Did these guys write this story in seperate parts , throw them together and kill their editor ? This had to be the most inchorent pile of garbage every considered a story to be on a movie screen , or tv screen for that matter . I actually looked at my watch several times and thought , `` they do n't have much time left to get to some point or go somewhere with this film . `` Acting-it was overdone and humurous ( when it was n't supposed to be ) .Direction-convinced there was no director.basically over and over during the film , my wife and I kept saying , `` this is really stupid . '' I think we finished the film as a badge of honor of sorts . We made it into a funny psuedo myster science theater-look at this pile of garbage type event.I 've only seen maybe one or two other films in MY LIFE that were this bad.I plead with the director , just because you got a camcorder for christmas does n't make you a movie maker . Not a legit one.To wrap this up , the ending of the film was such a freaking predictable letdown , that I laughed out loud , then thought back to all of the ridiculous scenes that had nothing to do with it.Actually this film did make me laugh . So it got a star for that.Should 've known better though . Any film which has it 's packaging try to explain itself so much on the back of the box probably has it 's reasons for doing so ... BECAUSE THE FILM WILL MAKE NO SENSE OTHERWISE .