I decided to jot down a few thoughts about this gem of a film after viewing it the other night . I had recalled enjoying it immensely as a child , and this time I was definitely not betrayed by memory ! The story is all about Archy , a plucky and bold yet intensely romantic-souled cockroach/poet , and his good friend Mehitabel the sexy and independent alley cat . You would not think that one could get so involved with animal characters of this sort , but you do , due to the fascinating viewpoints & quasi-human features of the cats , bugs , and rodents who inhabit Shinbone Alley . Although Archy and co. still maintain some basic traits which are representative of their species , they also operate as fable-esque types who satirize many human traits . Mehitabel steals the picture with her sassy , liberated philosophy of life , graceful dancing , and lively singing { her voice is charmingly supplied by Carol Channing } . You can ` t help but love her : she ` s a fetching hybrid of Mae West , Eliza Doolittle , and everyone ` s favorite stray cat . One of the story ` s running plots involves Archy ` s unrequited feelings for her , and you really do find yourself rooting for him : his wistful efforts to help her find a place as a house cat are constantly thwarted by her show biz ambitions and her many boyfriends . Despite some quarrels , the pair remain close , and this makes this the rare animated film to depict the ups and downs of a friendship . Mehitabel and Archy are always there for each other , no matter what the crisis . Highlights of the movie include gorgeous , bright visual depictions of Archy ` s poems , and thesong `` Flotsam and Jetsam '' , in which the pair take a joyous ride down the rivers of New York on a trash can lid . I should add that much of the material is PG in nature , but much of it will also go over a child ` s head { i.e. , Mehitabel ` s covert sexual flirting , a few mild alcohol references } . Also highly recommended : Don Marquis ` witty and touching poems , on which the musical that was adapted into this film was based .