This video is so bad it is painful to even remember it for your review . I provide this review as a duty to fellow fishermen and for you to save the cost of this title . The quality of the video is poor . The glare and shadow prevent you from identifying the fish , the type bait , the tackle , the fishing conditions , etc . Forget any hope of a demonstration of rigs , techniques , etc . In fact , it is my opinion that this video is almost completely devoid of any useful information or entertainment value . The 52-53 minute video is divided into two parts.Part One finds the charter captain and two customers , Jim and Howard , on the waters of the Gulf . The charter captain seems competent enough and his very brief demonstration of bait fish collection with a trolled net and his brief discussion of tide changes when fishing a pass are , perhaps , the only useful tips . Sadly , you will rarely hear from him . Instead you are inundated with Jim 's ( Jed Clampett with Stooge 's Larry haircut ) constant drivel . Jim presents as a selfish , irritating man who treats grinnin ' Howard like an unemployed , idiot son-in-law . Jim imparts no fishing knowledge that I could discern and will not shut up . I could not fish with such a man and would seriously entertain thoughts of pushing him from the boat . You can not even enjoy this video on mute . Part Two introduces you to & quot ; Lady Angler - Kate Jackson. & quot ; Deceptively not the & quot ; Angel & quot ; and & quot ; Angler & quot ; is a real stretch . She does not make any meaningful contribution to this video . I believe women anglers will find her insulting and sterotypical . She squeals when the fish pull , has no fishing rod technique , complains of how hard it is to reel in her fish , and has on far too many clothes to even be a pleasant diversion . I know people who fish to avoid such irritating companionship.I would prefer to have the dentist perform a root canal without an anesthetic than to see the cover of this video , much less watch it . Do Not waste your money .