Like some of the other disappointed reviewers , I had high expectations of Minority Report going into the theater . Spielberg is given lots to work with . The concept of precrime has enormous potential , and I was interested in how Spielberg 's vision of precrime could blow me away in the theaters.The concept is completely wasted . As mentioned in many earlier reviews , there are plot holes that wreck the film , and the movie leaves a critical viewer distressed.It was a movie that actually got worse as I thought about it after leaving the theater , hoping to discover the plugs that fill in the plot 's holes , I only realized that there were obvious logical impossibilities that can not be resolved . It is so frustrating to have a plot that is somewhat confusing , and upon further review , never actually comes together.Watching a movie like Pulp Fiction , 12 Monkeys or Memento , where events are seen out of order and pieced together until a full picture can be seen and appreciated , is far more satisfying than watching this film , in which events are seen out of order ( through the Precogs ) and pieced together to create a complete picture which could have never actually happened.Not only is the concept of precognition wasted . A significant suspension of disbelief is required to conceive of a futuristic world where murder can be prevented completely , but the most important female 'Precog ' can be kidnapped by a wanted criminal from the friggin ' police headquarters ! Does n't this frustrate anyone else ? You never really appreciate why the real villain committed the actual crimes that seem superfluous to the original plotline of Cruise running from the police for a crime he has not yet committed.So many films involving non-sequential events or time travel create a fascinating illusion of reality that bends and twists into a wonderful and satisfying conclusion that is unlike anything that could have been anticipated.The more I think about this movie , the more frustrated I am with Spielberg . It seems he blew what could have been a fantastic concept for a movie . Some of the effects are fun to watch , but you expect Spielberg to have had a much better handle on the plot .