This cult classic / rarely seen Caadian television opus is now avaliable on video . This tape contains the two episodes of the series . First up is & quot ; Voyage of Discovery & quot ; - by Cordwainer Bird AKA Harlan Ellison . The pilot for this series was written by the popular fantasy author . Not only did he write the show he created the concept . at least until it went from a big budget show filmed in Hollywood to a low budget show videotaped in Canada . In the pilot we are introduced to a society of farmers living off the land in Cypress Corners . Cypress Corners happens to be inside a dome on a giant spaceship , but our main characters do not know that yet . Right away we meet Devon ( a bit of a questioning rebel ) who is not in favor with the elders of the community . he is deeply in love with Rachel . Unfortunately she is to be married to Garth , a local blacksmith with a promising future . Devon eventualy find out they are living in a sealed off dome , one of many aboard a jiant space ship . Later he and Rachel flee into the fast interior of the spaceship . They are pursued and then joined by Garth . the embark on a quest to save the Earthsip Ark as the bridge crew have been killed in an accident and the Ark is drifting out of control towards a star . Keir Dullea , best known for his role in 2001 , was cast in the leading role . & quot ; The Goddess Calabra & quot ; by Martin Lager ( From a Story by Ursula K. Le Guin ) Finds out heroes in a strangely Romanesque society inhabited only by men . Rachel does not fit in all that well but she happens to look just like the image of thier goddess ! Great fun and some interesting revelations about the ark and the posibility of our three heroes ever being able to repair it.This episode features John Colicos the actor who played Baltar on Battelstar Galactica and Bary Morrse the actor who played the scientist in the first season of Space : 1999 . Unlike most movie compilations of recent years the Starlost has not been hacked and slashed together to try to make it look like a movie . So what you get are the two episodes back to back minus the nice credit sequences .