Length : : 1:43 MinsIf you have , like me , wasted money on this current commercial release you will understand why people are so angry about this dvd.I have many 'home recorded ' films but always prefer to buy a commercial release dvd if there is one , this purchase has left me wondering why i did so on this occasion.I have attached a set of movie clips from my own personal recording ( digital TV ) you will see that it is far better than this current commercial release ! ! Raid On Entebbe is a superb Film ! that goes without saying . Having decided to obtain a 'commercial release ' of Raid On Entebbe I was totally disgusted with the quality of the Region 1 ( ntsc ) issue that i ordered from a company based in the USA . I author and produce DVDs as a small concern and sell to collectors on ebay and ioffer etc and could not believe that a large company could issue a DVD produced to the low standard that the DVD was that i received . The picture is dark and grainy , the quality is so poor the film is totally ruined , and thats apart from losing several minutes from the original film ! The DVD case has what i would describe as low grade artwork , i can live with that if the film itself is good quality but neither the film or artwork are good.I ordered a second DVD from another supplier as the cover design was different and expected a better copy but to no avail , that was rubbish also . I have an excellent quality print of Raid On Entebbe which i obtained some time ago , a home TV broadcast digital recording , the print i have is sharp and the colours true . I in fact took screen stills from both my print and the commercial issue and compared the same pictures side by side , and could not believe the difference i was seing , not only that but the sound quality was much lower on the 'official ' release . I author and supply many DVDs to collectors worldwide and produce artwork for all my DVDs so know whats involved , I would regard the official release DVD disc as no better than a coffee cup coaster . Raid on Entebbe however is not the only release to suffer low quality reproduction , it seems the major companies are also churning out some of the older films using very low quality film prints , i have better quality that i recorded 20 years ago on vhs than what some are putting out for sale . I used to believe that a DVD issued by a major DVD company was going to be the best quality available , sadly this is not the case these days . I have hundreds of home recordings which i will keep watching and save money in the meantime if companies keep putting out low quality dvds such as Raid On Entebbe .