This is a great instructional DVD for ballet beginners who want to practice at home and improve their techniques . The teacher , Finis Jhung , is an innovative ballet instructor who has been teaching ballet in New York City since 1972 . He gives you concepts , ideas and imagery to work with , which are not commonly used in conventional ballet schools . Even the way he teaches you to use the barre and to work with your placement is different from run-of-the-mill instructions . It is so inspiring.I originally bought the Level 2 ( Advanced Beginners ) DVDs because I have been learning ballet as an adult for about a year and a half . But I realized that Jhung has his very own method and I was curious to learn about the basics in order to build a sold foundation as I progress . I do n't regret a bit about having purchased the Level 1 Barre DVD . Just the first few exercises are worth more than the money you pay for it . In fact , this is almost as good as a private ballet teacher , except you would want to have a mirror to give yourself corrections . It is important to have a home-practice barre and mirror or access to a ballet studio when you use Finis Jhung 's DVDs . Another good thing about the DVD is that the demonstrations show exercises for both left and right sides , so you do n't have to keep on rewinding the disc to repeat the other side . The demonstrator is excellent and shows the movements slowly and beautifully -- she is n't only someone whom adult beginners can look up to , but someone whom they can relate to as well.One word about the music . I did n't like the music in the Level 2 DVDs at all , as the rhythms are really odd and the melodies very ugly . But the music in the Level 1 DVD ( composed by the same guy Scott Killian ) is quite acceptable.I highly recommend this DVD to any adult ballet students who want to get a solid grip on their basic techniques , as this will greatly help them build more advanced techniques in the future.While Finis Jhung 's DVDs are pricier than other ballet instruction videos ( which I own quite a few ) , his are definitely more worth every dollar that you pay for , because you get so much out of them .