I suppose it makes perfect sense that if you want to make a 19th-century English romance novel into a superb film you hire an actress almost twice the age of the main character to not only play the role but also adapt the screenplay into a book and then hire a Taiwanese director to direct the film . You might say , yes , such things happen in Hollywood , but the success of `` Sense and Sensibility '' is due to what transpired in England , not Southern California . Having read the novel and the original screenplay , the largest share of credit goes to Emma Thompson , who deservedly received the Oscar for Best Screenplay Adaptation . Thompson began by dramatizing every scene in the novel , which resulted in 300 hand written pages to be followed by 14 drafts as the 1811 novel was crafted into the final script . The result was a script that manages to be not only romantic and funny , but also romantic and funny in the best Austen sense of both.After watching the film again I focus on three particular points , which I think best reveal the strength of Thompson 's script . First , the entire introductory sequence , which induces us to like the Dashwood sisters because we are introduced first to their step-brother and his shrewish wife ( credit for this particular sequence also goes to Film Editor Tim Squyres , who recut the scene so that we get all of one side and then the other instead of alternating back and forth as in the original script ) . Our sympathies can not help but be with the plight of Elinor and Marianne . Second , the use of Shakespeare 's Sonnet 116 ( `` Let me not the marriage of true minds '' ) , which Marianne and Willoughby share to their great mutual delight ( except he gets a word wrong , in an elegant little bit of foreshadowing ) and which Marianne repeats standing in the rain looking at Willoughby 's new estate . Third , Austen has Elinor bolt from the room to cry outside during the happy ending but Thompson creates a wonderful moment by having her stay in the room and having the rest of her family flee . There are not too many scenes where you are crying and laughing at the same time , but Thompson certainly created one ( and has the added virtue of relying on herself as an actress to nail the performance as well ) . All of these are marvelous examples of playing to the strength of the cinema to bring Austen 's novel to the screen.The performances are first-rate , especially Kate Winslet as the passionate Marianne , Gemma Jones as Mrs. Dashwood and Alan Rickman as Colonel Brandon ( the look on his face when Marianne thanks him for rescuing her is so wondrously touching ) . Hugh Grant does find a way of slowing the delivery of his dialogue more than usual , but it does fit the overall pace of the film . The supporting cast is exactly what you come to expect from a British production with Elizabeth Spriggs stealing every scene she is in as Mrs. Jennings , Robert Hardy as Sir John Middleton , Hugh Laurie as Mr. Palmer , Oliver Ford Davies as Doctor Harris , and the enchanting young Emilie Francois as Margaret Dashwood ( `` They always kneel down '' ) . On the darker side of the ledger we have Greg Wise as the less than honorable John Willoughby , and Imogene Stubbs as Lucy Steele and Harriet Walter as Fanny Dashwood vying for the main villainess role in the proceedings . No wonder Emma Thompson 's performance as Elinor is almost lost in the proceedings , but she is the center around which everything resolves who has to keep it together when everybody around her is losing it ( even when she first confesses her broken heart , she ends up consoling Marianne instead of the other way around ) .Ang Lee had already proven he could handle a tale of sisters in love when he directed `` Eat Drink Man Woman . '' In `` Sense and Sensibility '' he has the script , the actors and the set design all working in his favor to create a sense of 19th century England . But there are a few moments when he uses the camera to great advantage ; in particular the overhead shot of Marianne on her sick bed achieves a painting like quality and the tracking shot of Mrs. Jennings running down the street bearing the latest gossip.I first saw this film when visiting England and I was so caught up in the story that I had no idea who was going to end up with who . Actually , I was sort of rooting for Elinor to end up with Colonel Brandon since they were obviously the two finest members of their respective sexes in the proceedings . So the ending was as much of a surprise to me as it was to the Dashwoods , which is certainly something to be cherished . Obviously if you love this film it will lead you to other Austen adaptations ( the film versions of `` Emma '' and `` Persuasion '' along with the BBC mini-series `` Pride & Prejudice '' immediately leap to mind ) , but hopefully it will also lead you to the original novels as well . Finally , Thompson published `` The Sense and Sensibility : Screenplay & Diaries , '' which I would highly recommend after you have done both the film and the novel .