`` The Last Samarai '' is one of the greatest films released in 2003 , starring Tom Cruise and Ken Watanabe . Its hardhitting impact is intense enough to keep audiences ' eyes wide open through the whole movie . Its written plot of a US soldier changing his life for the better in Japan is brilliant . Despite the war themes , there are some great heartwarming scenes , namely when the US soldier starts healing his pains from his US war battles . As he begins learning Japanese traditions , he begins learning more about himself , which plays a crutial part in the film . As this develops , the drama also develops , which keeps audiences interested . This allows the conflicts between the two sides to be brought out as brilliantly as it was . His friends ' life stories add an additional unique flavor . The war scenes are uniquely intense . Few other movies have thought of such original war scenery . This teaches audiences that there is no one way to fight a war or to solve a conflict . Its Oscar-nominated 1870 's Japanese setting is flawless . They prove that they did their research to construct such an elaborate set . The war scenes are desplicted as brutal as they should thanks to the special effects . The costumes are accurate from those times . Such great background offers an improved sense of this masterpiece film.Tom Cruise 's underrated role as US soldier Nathan Algren is his best in years . His two years of training to prepare for his role paid off . He never loses his intense sense of emotion for a second . The pain and agony expressed are as pure as if he actually lived it . Ken Watanabe 's Oscar-nominated role as Samarai leader Katsumoto rightfully places him in the spotlight . This performance makes acting appear easy when it 's actually the opposite . He proves that he will become a big-name actor in the next following years . All other actors also performed their roles beautifully . `` The Last Samarai '' is great for those looking for a unique war movie with emotion . This is sure to please many audiences . This is destined to be a classic in the following years as it deserves .