A powerful story and a great cinematic experience , Metzger was at the top of his game in Camille 2000 . But this movie goes deeper than most on this topic.You probably already know the story line -- a beautiful `` jet setter '' bought and paid for by a very rich count hosts frequent parties dedicated to the hedonism she so passionately pursues . She meets a man and they fall in love for a summer . Then the romance ends unexpectedly . The next few weeks and months are a predictable series of chance meetings at various parties where the couple attempt to be unaffected by the other while doing things to intentionally hurt each other . It seems the couple themselves are the only ones who can not see the clear and obvious love still smoldering between them.But this story goes much deeper than a simple summer romance about love won and then lost . All through the movie it is clear that this large cast of `` the beautiful people '' is nothing more than a group searching for real meaning in their lives and not finding it , resulting in the predictable substitution of physical pleasure for real meaning . We have all done it on some scale - not finding what we truly want so we settle for what we think we want or for what we believe is the best we will find . And history suggests that sensuality is the most effective substitute for real meaning.As for all of us , sensuality works for a while for our central couple . But the truth seeps in no matter how badly we want it to stay out . It seems that the love our central couple feels for each other can not withstand the forces attacking it . Then hurt , anger , and even bitterness becomes their constant companions.Yet Metzger gives us so much more than this common and tragic story . He makes us long for the happiness our couple so deeply desires . He makes us want to step into the story , take them by the hand , and help them discover , perhaps again and again , the joy of unselfishly giving ourselves to another.This is a rich and powerful story of rich and powerful people seeking love and passion in a large and lavish context . The characters are the exaggerated caricatures we would expect in this type of story . Yet they seem so real and their conquests and pain become our conquests and pain so easily . I believe most of us will be able to identify with this couple entirely too well.And while this movie is all about sensuality , the nudity and sex are more subtle than obvious . The women 's outfits are ingeniously revealing but give the hint of nudity rather than the reality of it . There are a number of breasts in the film , and they are very beautiful breasts , but this is clearly not a skin-flick . If you are looking for porn , hardcore or even softcore , you need to keep looking.But if you do n't mind a little nudity in a story so poignant , then this will be a great addition to your library .