Bloodrayne ( Uwe Boll , 2005 ) Every once in a while you run across a director of truly bad movies , but every time he takes on a project , he does something that , despite your knowing the movie is going to be even worse than the last godawful piece of crap he released , still makes you want to see it.In this case , Uwe Boll , responsible for such execrable movies as Alone in the Dark and House of the Dead , somehow managed to rope in a cast it 's quite hard to believe were willing to take a chance on a videogame-based Uwe Boll movie . Topping the list of `` what were they thinking ? '' actors here is Ben Kingsley . Can you believe this guy played Gandhi ? Michael Madsen ( Reservoir Dogs ) , Billy Zane ( Posse ) , Michelle Rodriguez ( Girlfight ) , Udo Kier ( Suspiria ) , and a number of others come along for the ride as well . I ca n't believe all of them were that strapped for cash . All of them are billed under TV actress Kristianna Loken ( who last saw the big screen while playing the bad boss monster in Terminator 3 ) , in the movie 's title role , a half-vampire half-human who 's out to kill Kingsley 's character , Kagan , because Kagan killed Rayne 's mother . The fact that he 's also her father does n't seem to make her question her motivation much . Not that anyone in this movie has enough of a character to really have much motivation.That does n't seem to bother Boll , who cuts this movie from exactly the same cloth as his others : lots of action , hints of sex that might actually be interesting if he cared enough to explore those scenes , a useless script , camerawork that 's just this side of competent , and Boll 's somewhat impressive ability to wring the worst possible acting out of anyone he casts.And yet , despite all this , the most depressing thing about Bloodrayne is that the movie actually did well enough overseas ( predictably , it flopped like a nightmare in America , making two and a half million , well under one-fifth of its budget ) that Vivendi greenlighted Bloodrayne II . At least none of the original cast , including Loken , were hard up enough to sign on for what can not help but be another Boll monstrosity . ( zero )