I have seen various reviews of this film adaptation of L. Ron Hubbarb 's sci-fi novel , Battlefield Earth , and from the notoriously negative reviews ; Richard Roeper , Roger Ebert , The Nostalgia Critic , the works , with numerous Razzie wins . When it became available to watch instantly on Netflix , I decided to see it out of curiosity 's sake yesterday . And as it turns out , the critics were right ! This is one of the worst , most god-awful science fiction movies of all time ! I will address the flaws as we go along . Here is the premise . In the year 2000 , the planet Earth was seized by aliens from the opposing planet Psychlo . They have enslaved humanity to search for gold . Sounds like Elementary School style fan fiction , does n't it ? 1,000 years later , a village tribesman Jonnie `` Goodboy '' Tyler ( Barry Pepper ) decides to leave the village to hunt for food and comes across another tribe , who were kidnapped by the Psychlos . Something you will notice very quickly about this movie is that 95 % of the camera shots are at an angle , which feels like the camera is sinking in quicksand . Jonnie then meets Security Chief Terl ( John Travolta in a role that obscures and wastes his talent ) and his partner-in-crime Ker ( Forest Whitaker ) who plot to train the humans in secret , buy their way off Earth , and keep the gold for themselves , despite being really stupid and hardly know anything about humans . They do n't know what we eat , how we live , or our language . No joke . The language system can get pretty confusing at times . The Psychlos can sometimes appear to speak our language , when at others they actually use their native speech in a human 's perspective . I think this is so we wo n't read as many subtitles if you are lazy and just want to watch the movie , but they sometimes have the subtitles anyway . Why not just do a better job at keeping the languages separate . I can make do with a little reading . When they use a machine to give Jonnie information about the Psychlos and teach them how to use weapons and space-pods , they do n't see this as a recipe for disaster . And they could already teach them their language ? Why did n't they do that before because you can talk to them and learn so much . They can get a little lazy as well . How do they monitor the humans when they mine ? A small camera pod flies over and takes a still picture every few hours . Why not just use a video camera to record footage instead of plain photos ? Jonnie comes up with a plan to take back the planet . He learns everything he can about human history , the idiotic aliens and their weakness . Within two weeks , they find Ft Knox and give some of its gold to Terl , while they learn how to arm weapons , build bombs , and how to fly fighter jets . While that is going on , Terl mingles with his real-life wife ( what the Nostalgia Critic and I mean is that she was played by Kelly Preston , John Travolta 's wife ) . Then , the humans launch a surprise attack at the Psychlo base . So that means that six jets were able to combat an alien army , but an entire military in the past were only able to put up a measly 9-minute fight ? The memory machine must have been a fatal disadvantage . By the way , just a random question , but how were the humans able to find fuel for the jets ? If 1,000 years went by without the jets being used , the gasoline would have been of no use and the jets would have been ruined . I guess the military drained the gas and stored it away for when the time is right . Convoluted , is n't it ? In a very jumbled climax , Jonnie confronts and defeats Terl by blowing his arm off . The human blow up the base and the Psychlos suffocate . I forgot to mention that the Psychlos ca n't breathe Earth 's atmosphere and the same can be said for the humans in Psychlo 's radioactive and flammable atmosphere . One of them also plans to beam a bomb to the Psychlo 's planet . The explosion would be small , but due to its air design , it wiped out the entire planet forever in the most idiotically simple of all world destructions . So let me get this straight , Psychlo has an atmosphere made of radiation has never had a single explosion ? If the humans learned about this before , then Psychlo would have been destroyed to begin with . How stupid could they get ? ! Terl and Ker survive of Earth , but face different fates . Terl is used as a hostage for other Psychlo colonies to rescue , while Ker has a change in heart and disses Terl to help the humans . One of the writers , J.D . Shapiro , wanted this movie to be dark and edgy , with a more interesting story and a far more serious tone . However , Franchise Pictures decided to dumb down on the source material in order to appeal to children . That ultimately failed . The acting was so ridiculous and plagued with corny dialogue . John Travolta was so over-the-top goofy that he would be better off as Jonnie instead of the bland Barry Pepper . Despite this , I think Forest Whitaker was the only actor who was at least trying . Think about it . Ker joins the humans in the end , Pepper wins the Worst Supporting Actor Razzie , while Whitaker only got a nomination , and he still had a career after this . The overuse of Dutch angles can get sickening and give you a neck cramp . The plot was really simple-minded , convoluted , and uninteresting and it has nothing to do with Scientology , logic , or reason . The alien race is one of the dumbest in film history . The visual effects are average as well , nothing special . It uses cheap CGI , the sets look grungy and depressing , and the Psychlo makeup looks so silly with long hair and claw-like nails . I can now see why see why it was hated by many critics I know , because it was so messed up . If any of the cast and crew read this review , I am so sorry all this had to happen . Thanks a lot , Franchise Pictures ! You ruined everything ! P.S . No copyright infringement is intended .