Although Kino makes no boast about print quality on the box , its print of MARK OF ZORRO seems to be from an excellent 35 mm source . This film is the first , and many say the best , of Doug Fairbanks ' swashbucklers that he personally financed and produced during the 1920s . His subsequent films were more elaborate - he seemed to rival DeMille in epic production quality - but ZORRO is the most consistently energetic . Fairbanks remains in a class by himself as a superstar and he became a multi-millionaire by acting out his daydreams in films . That 's nice work if you can get it ! DON Q , SON OF ZORRO is almost as good but bogs down here and there in story complications . The print quality and contrast is not as good as ZORRO and I suspect that DON Q comes from a 16 mm . print . The five years between the two films show Fairbanks ' reputation as a producer having grown : DON Q looks as though it costs four times what MARK OF ZORRO cost . Jon Mirsalis ' piano score is very qood and he captures everything that silent film accompaniment should be : melodic and never intrusive . The bonus material is interesting but I wonder why KINO did n't include the five minutes or so of outtakes from DON Q that has been in circulation for years . The unidentified sound film excerpt of Fairbanks included with Orson Welles ' introduction is from the 1931 talkie , REACHING FOR THE MOON . Even in the excerpt , Fairbanks seems rather constrained by the dialogue chores . When he enters a room by vaulting through the window , he lands with a & quot ; thump , & quot ; showing why sound films would rob Fairbanks of the illusion of effortless agility so wonderfully masked in his silent films . Three chapters from his 1918 motivational book , Making Life Worthwhile , are included . Some say the book and others published during that time were ghostwritten for Fairbanks . In any event , I 've wondered why he had nothing to say to the public during the years of the Great Depression in the 1930s when people really needed a boost.I highly recommend this dvd as a superb example of energetic silent filmmaking and for the joy of experiencing the inimitable Doug Fairbanks personality .