If you thought 'The DaVinci Code '' was a groundbreaking work , you 'll love this video ! If , on the other hand , you actually prefer to do a little research before you jump on any old bandwagon you may find this romantic MTV fluffery to be a waste of time . Let me be clear ; I agree with some ( but not all ) of what is proposed by the author . My objection is to what he presents as 'evidence ' and furthermore , what he chooses to present as significant to proving his theories . It 's all hyperbolic grasping at straws spoken in an authoritative manner so as to imply 'secret truths . ' It 's silly.I wish I had a nickle for every time the author uses the words `` supposedly '' and `` therefore '' . I 'd probably wind up with little more than a dollar , but there are constant instances of drawing conclusions and making declarations of his fervent beliefs as if they were statements of fact right on the heels of his stating that something is unknown or a mystery.A great example is his declaration of the meaning of `` Baphomet '' . Nobody knows what this word REALLY means . There are many theories . Just check out Wikipedia -- not the best source for information on these things , but they do address a few of the various proposed etymologies of the word . He simply chooses the most dramatic version ( ooooohhh backwards writing ! of an abbreviation yet ! Those crafty Templars/Gnostics/Rosicrusians/Illuminati/Masons/Republicans ! ) and presents it as a fact . Look , he may be right , but only by luck . In a court of law we could throw out his entire testimony based on all the circular reasoning and sloppy , incomplete research.So , the information presented is faulty and incomplete in crucial ways . I do n't know his books . If they 're are shoddy as the material presented here I would n't touch them with a ten-foot Caduceus Wand of the Kerux ! Now as to the production : I ca n't imagine what had someone make the stylistic choices that have been made here . Why all the loud Emo/Grunge/Metal intersperced with New-Agey-Enya-type-stuff ? Why is the music so loud ? Why all the ultra-slow-motion pans that go nowhere ? Why all the multiple images layered on top of each other so that you ca n't clearly see anything ? Why all the shots of some guy ( the author ? ? ) wandering around historical sites with his mouth slack ? WHY ALL THE OBFUSCATION AND DISTRACTION ? If you have truly valuable infomation would n't you want to present it in a concise straightforward manner ? or at least artfully ? This is a mess ... .and the whole thing wraps up with a rap-metal tune . Perfect . I do n't get it . Neither should you .