If you have a moment -- and I assume you do -- I 'd like to talk about Forbiden Planet . It 's one of the films ( along with She , Island of Lost Souls , The Day the earth Stood Still , and a handfull of others ) that transformed science fiction films , from their undeserved status as kids ' stuff , to serious depictions of the human condition ... not to mention the alien condition , which is so often and unsettlingly similar to our own . And speaking of unsettling resemblances , have you ever noticed how much this film resembles Star Trek ? Ca n't be helped . There 's a certain & quot ; family resemblance & quot ; in a lot of s-f , and the ship/crew/new worlds gimmick was in use long before Captains Adams and Kirk appeared . Anyway , the producers of Forbidden Planet could hardly sue anyone for plagiarism , now could they ? The story is that of The Tempest ; though certain events have been changed and liberties taken , the core of Shakespeare 's play remains unchanged . Prospero ( i.e . Morbius ) guards his daughter and island-bound privacy jealously , and uses his magic to confuse and terroroize the party of sailors who 've landed there . It 's a small step from this to Altair-IV ; with the Krell to provide Morbius ' magic , Robby the Robot to act as both Caliban and Ariel , and some good old techno-huggermugger thrown in to help obfuscate things further , it 's a different ( but still similar ) story . It 's also a damned good story , a powerful depiction of a man destroyed by his darkest subconscous obsessions . It 's a story that demands to be taken seriously ... and in spite of such distractions as a drunken robot , not to mention the clumsiest seduction ever committed to celluloid , take it seriously we do . One of the most important reasons this film was taken seriously was its special effects . Many of them were , and still are , some of the best of their kind . Even by today 's advanced standards , a good deal of the visuals are real-looking and seamless . Watch the scene where Adams vaporizes the tiger ; it 's almost impossible to see the effects edit . And even though Altair is obviously a soundstage , the Krell constructions beneath Mobius ' home achieve complete reality . This feels like -- no , is -- an alien environment ... which leads to another great visual : Morbius , Adams and the Doc , walking on the gantry , infinitesimal specks against the massive Krell machinery all around them . And even the soundstage set has its moments -- when the monster gets caught in the force-field , and you get your first good look at its misshapen , demonic form , it 's an instant edge-of-your-seat moment . Whatever you were expecting , it sure was n't that ! As to the actors -- well , Walter Pidgeon pretty much carries the film , which is really only fair as his character is the key to everything . Anne Francis , who would later go on to immortality in a lyric from Rocky Horror Picture Show , is very good -- and absolutely gorgeous ! -- as sheltered ( but game ) daughter Vena . And Leslie Nielsen , a very funny guy who persists in doing unfunny movies , here does an admirable job with a role that was written to be one-dimensional . Nielsen somehow stretches J. J. Adams to two-and-a-half dimensions -- now that 's acting ! ( they 've given Oscars for less ! ) The supporting cast perform their various script-related functions ( hey , just like Star Trek ! ) , and do so very capably ... though I ca n't imagine why a tight-run ship like Adams ' would have an alcoholic cook -- or , for that matter , why such an advanced ship would even have an old-fashioned pots-n-pans kitchen in the first place . Oh , well ... even in spite of such obvious mistakes , Forbidden Planet is still a classic , a great film in any category , and will be loved by anybody who loves movies .