Joshua Tree is a very good and well-made action film that 'll no doubt appeal to moviegoers and action fans of all kinds . While the plot is n't exactly original , the movie itself is really quite spectacular . The performances are excellent ( especially Dolph Lundgren & George Segal ) and the action scenes are priceless ( the Warehouse Shoot-Out is simply one of the best action scenes ever filmed , period ) . Plus , the musical score is terrific and the movie looks very nice . This is one of Dolph 's best movies , if not his best . However , it 's a shame I ca n't the same for the DVD.First , why is it in dreadful fullscreen format and in an incorrect 1.33:1 aspect ratio when it should be in it 's original 2.35:1 aspect ratio and with widescreen presentation ( and 16x9 exhancement ) ? The picture itself looks horrible . It 's quite grainy and there are numerous specs throughout . Plus the movie looks very dirty and looks like it was shot on a film stock that had been collecting dust and was n't cleaned.Second , the sound . Just as horrible as the picture . It 's very poorly presented in Dolby 2.0 and it really hurts the film . The music , sound effects and dialogue do n't sound right at all . It should 've been in Dolby 5.1 , which would 've been a superb sound transfer , but the ( ... ) who produced this DVD instead gave it a dreadful Dolby 2.0 mix.Third , the extras . All it has are the trailer and scene access . That 's it . The trailer ( like the movie ) is in fullscreen and Dolby 2.0 as well . I was hoping to see a making-of featurette , and being able to listen to an audio commentary by the production team . Plus an isolated musical score would 've been a superb extra.And fourth , the movie 's title has been changed to Army Of One , which is a ( ... ) title.Overall , a very disappointing DVD with an awful picture and sound and lackluster extras ( and a different title , too ! ) . The transfer really ruined my enjoyment of this movie which I normally enjoy very much . Please wait for a new DVD with a widescreen 2.35:1 transfer with 16x9 enhancement and a Dolby 5.1 sound mix , as well as a bunch of nice extras ( like making-of featurettes , commentaries , isolated musical tracks , etc . ) and it 's original and correct title of Joshua Tree . Everyone who produced this DVD should be ashamed and be kicked out of the movie industry ( and DVD industry , too ! ) .