Well this ones a missed opportunity , a film that in some ways tries too hard and yet seems to lack faith in itself . The director has clearly tried for a visual style reminiscent of the graphic comics , but he has n't taken it far enough and instead of a Sin City type look , it comes over as garish with CGI that looks cheap rather than having the desired stylised effect . It also has one of the worst most intrusive scores I can remember.It starts at full blast with Violet infiltrating a government lab and stealing a package , when discovered the shooting starts and goes on and on and on ad-infinitum . The seemingly invulnerable Violet leaves a trail of devastation that would leave The Bride or Schwarzenegger in his prime green with envy . The chase scene also introduces some of the most idiotic high tech concepts ever committed to film , including internal body weapons stores and a device that supposedly changes the direction of gravity , allowing Violet to drive her motor bike up walls or stand on the ceiling , sounds dumb ? Believe me it is.Back at base Violet discovers that the package she has recovered is n't a weapon as such , it 's a child . When faced with her erstwhile associates determination to destroy the BoyBomb , she gets all maternal and decides to save him . As a result she ends up at odds with her friends and having to kill a load of others including the Blood Chinois , a group whose only function appears to be one scene as cannon fodder.After all this the film almost seems to run out of breath and in the few moments it pauses the film almost starts to work , we get some glimpses into who the boy Six is , why Violet does what she does and what 's going on . But then cast and crew get their second wind and the mad dash for the finish line is on.There is a slight twist to the end , but it 's not something you 'll care about and the bit with Violet and Six starting their happy ever after life style ending , despite both having been killed in the movie is twee and after all the slaughter that lead to it just plain silly , I suspect the input of some asinine focus group.Badly paced with a poor script and a director who seems to be trying to build on what he created in Equilibrium , but with remarkably little success . I really wanted to like this movie , despite the drubbing some other reviewers have given it , but I 'm afraid I do n't . On the plus side Mila as always looks incredible and some of the fight scenes are n't bad which earns it a few points .