`` Convoy , '' the 1978 action trucker flick , is one of those movies you like but are afraid to admit to . It 's the kind of tape you hide in the closet when friends are over . I first saw this crash epic at the theater as a kid and sat through it a second time because I liked it so much . Time has only slightly worn down my admiration , but in terms of the trucker genre , it 's still the best.Ah , the 1970s , those days of CB handles , Smokey and the Bandit - Special Edition , White Line Fever and Breaker , Breaker . Can you believe we flocked to the theater in droves to see these films ? `` Convoy '' came out at the tail end of this pedal-to-the-metal hoopla , about the time the song `` Movin ' On '' was included on the B-side of all of those K-tel LPs . The film 's director was the one and only Sam Peckinpah , now closing in on the end of a turbulent career . He was suffering from addictions and barely functioning as a professional . Yet even through the haze of alcohol and The Wild Bunch - The Original Director 's Cut ( Two-Disc Special Edition ) dreams , shreds of his wonderful talent can be seen . It 's ironic that a film considered the worst of his career is the best of a genre ( fans of Jonathan Demme 's fine Citizens Band may disagree ) . `` Convoy '' is a muscle epic , with a genuine attempt at portraying the gritty lifestyle of truckers . I like Kris Kristofferson in the lead role , a brooding presence who makes a fine hero . I have always had problems with trucker films because the actors never really seemed appropriate for their roles ( with the exception of Jerry Reed , of course ) . Kris is just right , exuding a sort of blue collar charisma that fits the role like faded jeans and a dirty red bandanna . The supporting cast is unusually excellent , including Ernest Borgnine in fine villainous form , Burt Young , Franklyn Ajaye and Madge Sinclair as salt-of-the-earth truckers , and even a distracted Ali MacGraw jogging around in bell bottoms and mini-fro.The movie , based on the kitschy hit song by C.W . McCall C.W . McCall - Greatest Hits , is about a trucker who runs afoul of a surly cop and then forms a convoy of trucks to escape corruption , jail , whatever . There 's a few subplots , including a governor who wishes to tout trucker rights , a jailbreak somewhere in Texas and eventually a standoff with the National Guard on the Mexican border . It all sounds like a Marty Robbins ' song.The cinematography by Harry Stradling Jr. is extraordinary , taking full advantage of the on-location vistas of New Mexico and Arizona . There 's also a barroom fight and a car crash that must rank as the finest ever put on film . And you even have salty lines of dialog straight from the cynical pen of Peckinpah - `` Mann Act 's for 18 year olds , not someone who 's seen the better side of thirty ! '' Or my favorite , when Kristofferson is asked what 's the purpose of a convoy , `` Purpose of a convoy is to keep movin ' . `` Poor Sam , in the throes of alcoholism , struggled mightily during the making of this movie , and it still performed well at the box office . Never-the-less , his career was in ruins after `` Convoy . '' He would make one more film before riding off into the western sunset . Not many people involved with `` Convoy '' are fond of it due to the problems during production . But what a party it must have been.If you squint your eyes just right and laugh at its absurdity , the wind-blown pages of this mediocre screenplay possess poetry of haunted men chasing ghosts down highways of the American southwest . `` Convoy '' is an example of A-list talent tackling C-list material , the end result being a unique film that raises the level of a crude genre .