I 'm with James Fearn , Oz is the best TV drama ever . So why does this series , with its harsh , violent , brutal characters and unrestrained language and violence rate so high ? Oz is about the two most important issues we all face : sin and redemption . And not sin and redemption in a Catholic or Christian sense , but in the sense of how we all belong to and participate in humanity . To address these issues most directly , the writers ( most of the time , the brilliant Tom Fontana ) and producer ( Barry Levinson ) go to the worst sinners of all and those most in need of redemption , the prisoners ( and their jailers ) at Ozwald State Correctional Facility , a mythical maximum-security prison in New York . Fontana and Levinson have dealt with these issues before , most notably in & quot ; Homicide , & quot ; but this time all the stakes are doubled . In Oz , violence and survival are minute-to-minute issues . So how , in the midst of such violence and brutality , does one find one 's way back to a place in humanity ? Some of the characters struggle to redeem themselves , some get by from day to day , some have just given up , and some go mad , like the chronically depressed and desperate Alvarez.Of these , some even attain true redemption , coming at last to a kind of peace and reconciliation . And then Levinson and Fontana remind us of the true dilemma of redepmtion : it 's just so damn fragile . Some of the most dramatic and heartbreaking moments of all are when we see the best characters , those who have found their fragile peace , descend once again into the violence they ( and we ) thought they had escaped . Because redemption is n't absolute . Like the prisoners and jailers in Oz , it lives moment to moment , and at any time we can lose our grasp on it and fall back into pit . It 's safe to say that no television drama has ever addressed these issues so directly or in such harsh , unremitting terms . Oz should stand as a classic in drama , right along with the works of Shakespeare and the ancient Greeks . Besides , once you start watching it , you just ca n't stop .