With regards to it 's level of poignancy and bittersweetness this film rates with Mike Leigh 's other film `` Career Girls '' .In terms of acting ability EVERYONE in this film , even the cute dog who poses for the camera , gives the performance of their lives and should 've received awards . Few films leave me trembling with emotion but also loving all the characters . Timothy Spall 's performance is just TOTALLY beyond explanation . I just loved his line `` That 's life is n't it ? Somebody always has to draw the short straw '' when he was speaking to the young lady with a facial scar . The power behind that line really got me thinking . In the end basically we ALL draw the short straw although we might get there by different means.Brenda Blethyn must 've been an emotional wreck after this film similar to the character she plays . How she kept up constant weeping baffles me . Marianne Jean -Baptiste is just beautiful . What a stunning , multi-talented actress . Claire Rushbrook 's character reminds me of so many characters i knew back in London . Good , honest hearted people , slightly near the edge but then we ALL are near the edge in truth . A more candid look at life could not be put on film but then this is what Mike Leigh excels in . Leigh 's criticised sometimes for making his scenes dismal ( although it 's sunny throughout this one ) and his characters wretched , beyond salvation and to be pitied but far from it . After all what he unearths is the truth that exists in families , the skeletons in the closets . If this film had been done in Hollywood it would never have the same impact . It 's a petty argument indeed but some folk have suggested that Marianne Jean-Baptistes character is too dark skinned for her considered being of mixed parentage . I can tell them otherwise . It CAN occur on rare occasions and i have firsthand proof of this . Genetics is something we still do n't have full control over , thankfully . Forget analysing this film in detail and just enjoy a collective solid gold standard of performance .