I must concur with the reviewers who say the production of this concert footage is very poor . If you 're looking to watch Evanescence live in concert , chances are you wo n't find it here . This feels more like any music video than a concert . It has been edited to the nth degree and rarely focuses on one shot for longer than two seconds . Luckily , the DVD does have some redeeming factors , including the emotionally pained music videos for `` Bring Me to Life '' , `` Going Under '' , `` My Immortal '' and `` Everybody 's Fool '' . The behind-the-scenes bits are slightly entertaining , if nothing more . It 's good to be shown that this band has a lot of fun on the road , giving the impression that they wo n't be quitting the business any time soon.While the video aspect of the DVD is poorly done , the audio is much better , which is why , if it were possible , I 'd recommend you buy the concert CD in place of the DVD . Anyway , Amy 's voice is nicely familiar in concert , which I was unsure of ; you know how some singers sound completely different live than on a recording ? Well , she does n't . Her voice falters during some of the fast-paced songs , but that 's to be expected when she 's running around and jumping on stage . I was particularly awed by the ballads ; her powerful vocals combined with her beautiful piano playing was chilling , especially during `` Breathe No More '' and the band 's hit , `` My Immortal '' . I surprised myself to find that I really liked `` Thoughtless '' , the band 's cover of a KoRn song . I was never a KoRn person , or an alternative-rock-heavy-metal-of-any-kind person , but I was impressed with the way this song was performed by Evanescence.The audio CD also includes a previously unreleased track titled `` Missing '' . Much like the band 's other ballads , this song is mellow , soft , boasting good vocals and painful yet beautiful lyrics.In conclusion , Evanescence sounds very , very good on this CD . It is a real pleasure to listen to ; it 's just the DVD that , well , kinda sucks .