I 've been a fan of the X-Men since I was around 9 years old . In recent years , the comics have gotten stale and almost impossible to follow ( A situation that Marvel Comics has turned around lately ) , and despite giving the first X-Men film more than one chance , I really did n't think much of it . So I tried to keep my expectations low for X-2 ... The good news is- It 's MUCH better than it 's predecessor ! X-2 does n't need to bombard viewers with as much information ( Since that was mostly taken care of in the first film ) , and can pretty much hit the ground running . We pick up right where the first film left off : Magneto is in jail , Wolverine is looking for clues to his past , and anti-mutant hysteria is running rampant . Enter William Stryker , a fanatical Government employed mutant-hater , excellently played by Brian Cox . He sends blue-skinned mutant Nightcrawler to tear up the White House and rough up the President in the awesome opening sequence , therby ensuring Presidential cooperation with the anti-mutant agenda . Stryker wastes no time at all setting up a covert forces strike team , and their first target is ... ..Professor Xavier 's school . Seems like they picked the wrong time to visit , though ; The kids are home alone with their `` Babysitter '' ... ..Wolverine ! Let 's get ready to RUMMMMBBBLLEEEE ! ! ! Before you know it , it 's all-out war between Stryker and the assembled mutant faction ; Magneto is sprung from prison , Xavier and Cyclops are captured and used by Stryker , and the stage is set for a winner-take-all brawl at Alkali Lake , where Wolvie just might find out some interesting tidbits about his Adamantium skeleton and claws ... .. Fans disappointed by the lack of action in the first film will be in their glory here , as the number of fights have been ratcheted waaayyy up , including an excellent throw-down between Wolverne and Deathstrike , played by the lovely Kelly Hu , and Wolverine 's berserker rage in the mansion . Got ta love the way he dispatches Stryker 's goons ... ! Director Bryan Singer has assembled an excellent cast , and each character gets his or her moment to shine . The new additions , Cox and Hu , do a great job with their respective roles , and the end sets the stage for X-3 . Longtime fans will appreciate the appearances by X-Men mainstays like The Beast , Colossus , Siryn , Artie , and Kitty Pryde , and be on the lookout for mentions of Gambit and Franklin Richards , among others . Bad news ... ? The film starts strong but gets a little draggy towards the end ; Maybe some tighter editing was needed . Also , considering how heavily the film relies on characters and situations developed by X-Men comic-book scribe Chris Claremont , including the plot lifted whole-cloth from his legendary graphic novel `` God Loves , Man Kills '' , I was more than a little dismayed not to see him acknowledged in the credits . X-2 is n't a perfect film , but it 's a BIG step up from the previous X-Men movie , and a great way to start the summer movie-going season .