Director Jon Reiss and producer Tracy Wares take us on a world tour of graffiti in `` Bomb It '' . The film is more supportive of graffiti art than against it , but it does interview individuals who make it their mission to rid neighborhoods of graffiti as well as graffiti artists on 4 continents . There is an undercurrent that questions who should decide what we look at in public spaces , a provocative question but not really the focus of the film . `` Bomb It '' covers a lot of ground in the history and scope of graffiti art , but to good effect , as we are able to see that graffiti artists are not all alike . Graffiti has evolved over time , and its purpose is different in different cultures and sub-cultures . `` Bomb It '' starts by interviewing Cornbread , a Philadelphian whose campaign to tag everything with his moniker in 1967 might make him the first modern graffiti artist . The film avoids the who-did-what-first debate but follows the progression from simple tagging to more elaborate lettering that led graffiti 's transformation from an underclass counter-culture movement into one that encompasses a broader artistic movement . Graffiti artists from New York in the 1970s-1980s talk about their exploits before the city began to aggressively clean up graffiti on public property . Other cities whose artists are featured are : Paris , France ; Amsterdam , Netherlands ; London , UK ; Berlin , Germany ; Barcelona , Spain ; Capetown , South Africa ; Sao Paulo , Brazil ; Tokyo , Japan ; and Los Angeles , USA.I 've always thought of graffiti as a means of frustrated , energetic , but mostly irresponsible youth lashing out at what they perceive as the status quo . Now I 've learned that graffiti art has different significance in different cultures . In South Africa , graffiti was a tool for political change . In Los Angeles , it has been part of the Chicano movement and has taken on the trapping of a lifestyle in some quarters . In some cultures , the emphasis is more on putting artwork in public spaces than on counter-culture . Not surprisingly , these artists have a less adversarial relationship with communities and the law.The fact is that graffiti and vandalism do have a profound effect on the rate of more serious crimes . And many of the artists interviewed come across as extremely self-important people who inflict their spleen on others , because their lives are not as they would like . On the other hand , one can not deny that graffiti is sometimes an improvement over drab , decaying edifices , or that the artists are talented , or that some of graffiti 's opponents are politically nave philistines . `` Bomb It '' provides an introduction to graffiti and its controversies by showing us the art , the ideas , and the differences of opinion.The DVD ( Docurama 2008 ) : There are 3 featurettes and a feature commentary . In `` Behind the Scenes '' ( 14 min ) , director Jon Reiss talks about the genesis of the project , filming in different nations , assembling the film , and some themes . `` Extended Time Lapse Sequences '' ( 15 min ) are 3 sequences , 5 minutes each in England , Brazil , and Japan , where we can watch the artwork being created in accelerated time . There are also `` Extended Interviews '' ( 26 min ) . The audio commentary by director Jon Reiss and producer Tracy Wares is constant and informative . They talk about what they did and did not include in the film , their intentions , and more details on who and what we are seeing .