I bought this DVD from Amazon , mind you , although it may not look like it , because I 've recently changed my email address and received another account.Anyway , I hardly ever write more than 3 or 4 line reviews , but this is one of those rare exceptions . I watched this movie for the second time some days ago , and funnily enough , the impact was even bigger than the first time . It keeps playing in my head all day.Some details that had escaped I noticed now . Despite what some people may say , I ca n't think of something more beautiful and pure than the love the boy obviously felt for his soldier . Reading some reviews , I tend to agree with many of them . They say they got extremely sad . One woman said she felt like tucking the boy in and telling him his prince would come back . Another guy said he wondered if the soldier really knew how much the kid loved him.Rudi Van Dantzig died in January , this year , and someone said that now he would finally meet his soldier.Touching.They say the book is not as romantic . Well , I could n't read it , but judging from the movie , it is hard to imagine someone who would n't like to live a romance as intense as that , although short , and regardless.The reason for the unfortunate ending will always remain a mystery , and that , in my opinion , adds to the magic.I wo n't repeat here what has been said about the actors . They are really good . However , one special observation about the boy and the soldier : they are really convincing , and at times you even have the impression that they are actually enjoying it . The boy has the kind of unusual , fleeting beauty that you see once in your life . His eyes look sad , even when he smiles.Of course there will always be those who are ready to criticize it , but that is to be expected . Let 's face it : some things are not meant for everybody.Technically speaking , my only gripe is that , unfortunately , the quality of the image is not top , but the movie itself more than compensates for it . And I will watch it again ! ! !