Ridley Scott 's Alien must be considered one of the best thrillers ever put onto celluloid . It ranks up there with such films as Hitchcock 's Psycho and Tod Browning 's Dracula ( 1931 ) . Alien is pretty much a classic haunted house film , but instead of an old , spooky Victorian-era manse we have an old , dingy , massive space-freighter and the endless darkness of space itself.Alien rises above its B-movie credentials -- - this film is really a B-movie at heart -- - with a very taut and intelligent script , and exceptional direction from Ridley Scott . From the long opening sequence of the Nostromo filling the screen , the audience knows its going to be treated to an exceptionally shot film . Ridley Scott has always been known for his art direction and the biomechanical look of the sets in Alien helps add to the sense of dread and horror . It helps that Scott and his crew decided to hire renowned Swiss surrealist H.R . Giger to design the look of the sets and the creatures . Anyone who has seen Giger 's work can easily see his influence in the set design for Alien . Giger 's final design for the main creature itself will go down as one of the best creations in film history . By now , everyone knows what to picture in their head when someone mentions the words Alien and film together.The group of actors picked for the film is excellent from top to bottom . Tom Skerritt 's Capt . Dallas is a strong foundation upon which the rest of the characters revolve around . Veronica Cartwright 's character 's slow descent into hysteria -- - wholly appropriate with the situation she and the rest of her crewmates are faced with -- - is like a barometer to the increasing dread that permeates throughout the film from beginning to the end . The stand-out of the cast has to be Sigourney Weaver . The fact that this was her first major film role bodes well for what audiences could expect from her as her career exploded . Her character of Lt. Ellen Ripley is pretty much the antithesis of Cartwright 's Lambert . Where Lambert slowly descended into a paralyzing hysterics , Ripley slowly took control of the situation and became the de facto leader after Dallas.The overall tone of the film does owe alot to past scifi horror/thrillers . But instead of constant scares and red herrings , Scott slowly built up the tension and dread with long slow shots of empty corridors and cargo holds . For a film that 's considered one of the best horror films ever made , Alien does n't have alot of dark areas where the monster suddenly jumps out . The monster will jump out from well-lit and spacious areas . Scott also used Spielberg 's trick of keeping the monster-creature from being on-screen for no longer than quick glimpses . Its not until close to the very end do we see Giger 's Alien creature in all its glory.This newest of the many Alien dvd editions has finally come with re-edited scenes that adds some more shock and horror to the film . I have to agree with Scott 's reasoning for deleting the scenes themsevles . It does slow down the rollercoaster , beat-the-clock pace in the latter part of the film . But in the comforts of one 's own home theater , these re-edited scenes are easier to take in . The look of both the original theatrical and director 's cut of the film has been remastered and looks great , especially when seen on a progressive-scan capable dvd player and a dedicated widescreen HDTV . The sound and music have also been given a 4-star remastering treatment to make better use of the home theater systems that are growing in numbers.Alien is the most superior entry in the Alien Quadrilogy , even though Aliens is a more exciting film . Alien takes the scifi horror genre and sets a standard that many have still to reach to this day .