Forbidden Planet is perhaps the pre-eminent work of 1950s science fantasy . It is not by any stretch of the imagination hard science fiction , but it is a thoughtful and intelligent offering in its own way.Famously ( but very loosely ) based on Shakespeare 's `` The Tempest '' , this is a movie where there are as many potential layers of meaning as you want to find . With Morbius cast as Prospero , and Prospero in turn very likely based on the Elizabethan magus Dr. John Dee , co-creator of the Enochian magical language , is it really a co-incidence that Morbius is himself a linguist ? There is much more that I 'd like to say here , but I 'm holding back for the sake of those who are not already familiar with the film . I do n't want to give away any spoilers . For those who have seen the film , and who feel inclined towards such exercises , I 'll just ask this : to whom - or what - would you assign the respective roles of Ariel and Caliban ? How would you fit your answers in with the film 's wider themes ? And what do your answers suggest about how matter and spirit were respectively conceived in the minds of the Elizabethans versus the Americans of the 1950s ? Just something to think about.For those who have n't yet seen Forbidden Planet , I 'd say first and foremost that this is a wonderful film that works perfectly well on the level of a straightforward adventure that a 10 year old could enjoy . As a piece of science fiction , I 'd only stress that such depths as you will find are of philosophy more than science ; although the classic technological themes of 1950s science fiction are played out in metaphorical form . Happily though , the reds under the bed/saucers in the sky metaphor that became such a clich & eacute ; in so much of the science fiction of the day is nowhere to be found.One thing I do want to add before moving on is that this movie is well worth seeing just for the set design alone . Whether you consider it classic or dated is up to you ; but for myself I will simply say that never have I seen the visual lexicon of 1950s science fiction expressed more completely.Okay then : so much for the film . How about the DVD ? Well , I 'm happy to say it 's awesome ! Picture quality is beautiful , and there are LOADS of extras , and really good ones too . We get heaps of period promotional material , including in depth behind the scenes stuff and even an extra bonus kids ' movie that also used Robbie the Robot as a prop . Incidentally , because I have seen some reviews that I 've written appear for editions or releases other than the one I originally wrote them for , let me stress that I 'm writing all this about Forbidden Planet ( Two-Disc Special Edition ) .If you check out my reviewer profile , you 'll see that I 'm not one of those reviewers who hands out five star raves like candy . But if you have any interest at all in classic science fiction , this is a film that you MUST see . And if you 're looking for the finest possible DVD release , to the best of my knowledge this is it.Theo .