From the trailers and the presence of Julia Roberts in the cast , I went into CLOSER expecting a light romantic comedy . ( My preconceptions have n't been so shattered since I saw Bambi 's mother get shot by hunters at the Saturday kiddie matinee ! ) CLOSER opens as Alice ( Natalie Portman ) , a New York stripper on a visit to London , is grazed by a car after she 's looked left instead of right stepping off the curb . She 's taken to the hospital by a stranger , Dan ( Jude Law ) , a writer wannabe with whom she starts a live-in relationship . Then , Dan sits for a formal portrait by photographer Anna ( Julia Roberts ) , on whom he unsuccessfully hits . Subsequently , Larry ( Clive Owen ) , a dermatologist , meets Anna , whom he marries , then divorces after discovering that she 's had recent sex with the once-spurned Dan . On the rebound and needing physical comfort , Larry seeks out Alice , now shucking clothes at a London strip club after having left Dan , and whom he 'd previously met at one of Anna 's photo exhibits . But Dan still pines for Alice and is emotionally devastated that she may have had sex with Larry . Is this messy , or what ? ( The timeline is murky ; apparently all this happens over a couple of years . ) CLOSER is a film , painful to watch , of sexual manipulation , possession , and obsession in which the four principal characters inflict emotional cruelties on each other . It 's not holiday fare for an afternoon out at the movies with your aged Mum . The language is sexually graphic and , in one sequence of scenes in the London strip joint , visually raunchy . CLOSER is , however , one of the best films of 2004 . Julia Roberts is perhaps the biggest surprise as she shows that she can radically transcend - even beyond ERIN BROCKOVICH ( 2000 ) - her usual cute roles ; I was mightily impressed.It would be hard to pick this film 's lead and supporting parts . All four ( Portman , Law , Roberts , Owen ) have about equal screen time ( though I was n't keeping track with a stopwatch ) . Any , or all , of them could garner an Oscar nomination.I had begun to doze about a quarter of the way into the film , but then woke up almost with a start as I realized that CLOSER is an exceptional adult film , without visually explicit sex or violence , that brutally shows grown-ups in dysfunctional relationships behaving at their very worst . Truly , as is indicated by a line in KINSEY : '' Sex is a dangerous game . If you 're not careful , it can cut you wide open . ''