They do n't make them like that anymore . This one is really sleazy . In fact , the sex far outweighs the violence . And the many sex scenes are quite graphic , bordering on hardcore . It also is nasty , most notably in the massage parlor scene , where a sadist beats a woman with his belt.A SCREAM IN THE STREETS revolves around the fight of two cops against the criminal scum - robbers , a peeping tom and a crossdressing serial killer , who looks HORRIBLE . And his female victims are not too smart , since he approaches them as a very unconvincing `` woman '' , and they ( including a plain cloth female detective ! ) do n't even notice ! Like many cop movies of its time , A SCREAM ... has an openly self-justice stance . Watch out for the final scene , which also makes good use of the split-screen technique , which was very popular in the early 70ies.As you have probably guessed by now , this is politically NOT correct and because of this much fun ! Picture quality is very impressive . SWV has done a great job with the transfer . As usual SWV 's DVD offers a lot of extra features . There is of course the film 's trailer , which includes footage not shown in the film . All in all there is a dozen of trailers , either US exploitation fare or old French crime flicks . My personal favorite among the trailers is THE GODSON starring overbusty Uschi DIGARD ( this film will be released on DVD soon ) . A `` play all '' option for the trailers would have been helpful.Also included are five shorts , of which I liked THE PROWLER best . Since I am a true crime buff this early 60ies black and white instruction film for police officers was very compelling viewing for me . Also interesting is CRIME IN THE STREET , an instructional documentary about crime prevention featuring a very young Chuck NORRIS ( then karate trainer ) . The film is entertaining but somehow pointless , because all of the advice given is so wellknown and common sense.I did not like the other three shorts very much . HARRY NOVAK , CRIME BUSTER is a kind of documentary , where a film crew visits movie producer Harry NOVAK . After fooling around NOVAK ( jokingly ) suggests that they visit a business partner , who paid with a foul cheque . NOVAK brandishes a samurai sword and a rifle to enhance his arguments . Strange business customs ... Another short is an extremely silly sex movie , boring beyond belief and due to horrible print quality almost unwatchable . The last short feature is a black and white burlesque striptease . Boring , and by the way : You do n't get to see something.Far better is the extensive still gallery of Harry NOVAK films.Buy the DVD but better skip the three last shorts in the extra features .