Synopsis : John Ritter stars as Roy Knable , a true couch potato whose life and marriage is disintegrating around his ears as he watches TV to escape it all . On the same night that his wife Helen ( Pam Dawber ) intends to leave him , a mysterious salesman named Spike ( Jeffrey Jones ) appears to sell Roy a new television set , complete with a gigantic satellite dish that will beam 666 channels right into Roy 's living room . Yet something goes awry when Roy and his wife get sucked onto the satellite dish and enter the hellish world of Satan TV . From there it is a frantic rush to survive before time runs out.About the Movie : Stay Tuned is probably one of my favorite comedic movies . I first saw it in the early 90 's and when I saw that it had come out on DVD I jumped at the chance to get it . Stay Tuned is filled with slapstick humor , a great many very twisted comic plays on classic television clich & eacute ; s and TV shows . Among them are Saturday Night Live , Star Trek The Next Generation , Three 's Company , WWF , and classic cartoons . The cartoon is presented in a wonderfully delightful animated sequence that was actually supervised in production by the legendary animator Chuck Jones ( who did many of the Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck cartoons . ) This is truly at the top of the films John Ritter starred in . Ritter 's comic timing help make this film . While this film never got much notice , it certainly is an excellent example of why John Ritter 's comedic career managed to span over 2 decades . He was very good as what he did.Veteran comic Eugene Levy ( `` SCTV '' and `` American Pie '' ) also plays a major role in this film as Crowley , a down and out Hell TV Exec who helps the Knables on their journey . He manages to play the lovable slimeball quite entertainingly . Jeffrey Jones plays the bad guy , Hell TV 's CEO , Spike . He 's a great actor for the bad guy in a comedy , and he manages to be convincingly evil and funny at the same time without making the role look stupid , as tends to happen to bad guys in slapstick comedies these days.With John Ritter 's comic timing and Pam Dawber playing the straight-man as they tumble from demented channel to demented channel , this film is great for a lot of laughs . About the DVD : Stay Tuned comes in a cardboard DVD snap case , marking it as budget fare . It is presented in widescreen format with Dolby Digital 5.1 sound . Both the picture and sound are pretty good . I did not notice any issues with either . The DVD comes translated into French ( why no Spanish ? ) and has English , French and Spanish subtitles.For special features , the DVD comes with an extended theatrical trailer , cast info and a behind the scenes featurette look at the movie . The cast info is simply a list of actors in the film . They do n't even provide bios for them , making this a clear case of beefing up content with minimum effort . The featurette is the type that they used to show on television just before the movie came out , with interviews with the cast that are completely unenlightening if you have seen the movie . It 's only mildly interesting . The bad side is that the music which plays behind the commentator is outright annoying through the first quarter of it.This DVD release is a pretty standard no frills release.Overall , a great movie on a standard unexciting DVD release . 4 stars