He 's a clear teacher , and the exercises are presented at the right pace . He takes time to explain the rationale behind practice , which seems a good idea to say to those of us learning exclusively through DVDs . The two songs you learn here , one classical , one a bossa nova , are pleasant pieces , and his pace of teaching here is a little quicker . In brief asides , he gives a lot of information beyond what you might guess would be here.My problems with the DVD are two . For one thing , as with other DVDs from this publisher , you 're paying nearly thirty dollars for sixty minutes of DVD . Traum is a good teacher too , but these do seem overpriced to me . There are others deals out there better , and similar information free on the web , so I 'm not entirely happy with that.The second problem is that the fingerstyle exercises are quite basic . I use patterns in daily playing that are more intricate than those he gives , and so to me these seemed simple ( I 'll certainly do them , however ) and I had worked most out for myself . The only exercise that seemed intermediate to me was the arpeggios , in third and second positions , which are more about left hand than right hand technique . The two songs , however , are beyond beginner , more intermediate . It seems to me most purchasers are going to be disappointed by one or the other half of this 60-minute DVD -- either bored as I was with the basic level of the exercises or intimidated by the songs ' complexity.What I would have preferred is 60 minutes of exercises , increasingly complex . I suppose the average buyer would find that too boring ( teach me songs ! they might say ) but I 'm very interested in getting better and know from learning other instruments that repetitive exercises are the way to do that . I wanted a DVD guide to those , rather than a fat printed book of them , and this is n't quite what I had hoped for.As he points out , you could also use a pick with these exercises to work on your right hand accuracy .