I have to admit with some shame that prior to this movie , I did not know who Harvey Pekar was . But that did not in the least limit my ability to enjoy this movie , which was one of the most interesting that I have seen in a long time . The theme of the movie as a whole is brilliantly summed up in the first few seconds of the film . Several boys go up to a house on Halloween , all of them costumed as Super Heroes except for one boy , who is dressed up merely as himself : Harvey Pekar . The movie as a whole is about Pekar 's attempt to tell his own mundane , dull , and disappointing life in a comic book . Instead of a comic book about super heroes , he envisioned a comic book about himself , a file clerk at the Veterans Hospital in Cleveland . The movie tells the story of Pekar 's life in varying degree of details , highlighting his meeting R. Crumb in the 1960s and Crumb 's inspiring him to start a comic , despite his inability to draw . By taking incidents from his own life , involving his friends and colleagues , designing the frames of the comics , and then hiring artists to illustrate his stories ( many by Crumb himself ) , Pekar manages to create something unique , funny , and , in its own strange way , triumphant and beautiful . The film implies that we can all be the heroes of our own story . Not much happens in the film , but it manages to be riveting despite this . The big events in the narrative are Pekar 's meeting R. Crumb , his decision to write his own comic , meeting his wife , a series of guest appearances in the late 1980s on the Dave Letterman Show , and his bout with cancer . Throughout this , there is no attempt to make Pekar look better than he is . He is depicted as physically unattractive , a bit weird , a chronic underachiever , more than a little neurotic , and extremely self-absorbed . But despite all this , there is an honesty in looking at his life and depicting it pretty much as it is , warts and all . The way he deals with everything with an indefatigable sense of humor and his determination to do something to give his life a focus and a purpose is heroic in a very real and concrete way , as opposed to the fake , fictional heroism of Superman , Batman , or the Green Lantern.It would be difficult to overpraise Paul Giamatti in playing Harvey Pekar or Hope Davis in playing Joyce Brabner , the woman who marries Pekar . Both the real Pekar and the real Brabner appear on camera as well , as do most of the real life models for Pekar 's characters . In fact , the way the movie narrative flows seamlessly between real life individuals , to actors , to comic book depictions is one of the strong points of the film . In one scene , the Paul Giamatti playing Pekar and Judah Friedlander playing Pekar 's friend ( and minor MTV celebrity ) Toby Radloff are onscreen while the real Harvey Pekar and Toby Radloff have a conversation . In another part of the film , Hope Davis and Paul Giamatti are supposedly backstage at the Dave Letterman show , but when Giamatti as Pekar exits to go onstage with Letterman , it cuts to footage of the real Pekar being interviewed by Letterman . I was reminded of the famous Margritte painting , where he has a painting of a pipe with the words `` This is not a pipe '' underneath . By moving from the real Pekar to an actor playing him , it is a way of saying `` This is not Harvey Pekar '' whenever Giamatti is onscreen . Moreover , it intimates that Giamatti is a cinematic equivalent of the various Pekars drawn in the comic books.This is a great movie , and one that I hope gets the attention that it deserves . It is very different than the movie CRUMB , but I imagine that it will especially appeal to those who enjoyed that strange but fascinating documentary .