That 's the way this film was advertised when it came out in 1981 , in the classic Universal monster sense `` a monster movie . '' As a child of divorce , I had a weekend Dad that would take my sister and me to any movie regardless of rating ( well , within limits ) and this one scared us silly . I remember sitting in the theater and watching the transformation ( having seen Lon Chaney Jr. 's transformation in `` The Wolf Man '' I was familiar with the lineage of the genre and the example this film had to live up to ... having seen `` The Howling '' later ( not much later , as the films nearly competed with each other theatrically ) I was a huge fan of Rob Bottin and his mentor , Rick Baker ( not to mention the late , great Dick Smith and the master of splatter , Tom Savini ) , I was just glued to the screen during one of the coolest effects of all time , just awed by what was happening , and just freaked at the believability of it all when compared to the stop-motion transformation of the Chaney makeup ) not to mention the scene with David Naughton ( `` be a Pepper ! Drink Dr . Pepper ! ) and Jenny Agutter in bed ( not to mention the shower ) ... yowza ! ( Well , I was 11 ) .The only thing that 's ever bugged me about this film is the lack of what 's supposed to be a supremely gory scene that Landis cut out because it overwhelmed the scene that came after it ( supposedly , audiences were so grossed out and shocked that they babbled through the entire dialogue scene that followed David waking up in the wolf 's pen at the zoo ) : the scene was the expanded murders of the bums by the dock , and I do n't think it makes it to this new DVD version of the film ( which is a bummer , because the expanded gore in Verhoven 's Robocop ( Criterion edition ) actually plays better than the MPAA approved version ) .In any case , this is a truly great `` monster movie '' in every sense of the word ... it 's gross , funny , sexy , exploitative in many ways ( the book `` Splatter Movies '' calls it gore porn ) , truly a Landis film by dint of it 's `` in '' jokes and orgy of automotive mayhem , and it offers great acting and casting ( even in small roles like the Pakistani shift worker at the hospital and the punks on the London Underground ) . Just an all-around fun movie , with truly amazing , and Oscar-winning effects ( still looking awesome and believable ... nothing digital comes close ! ! I 'll say it again : digital just ai n't there yet ... the transformation looks bone crunching , painful , horrific , and stretches the imagination in more ways than one ) . Bottom line , I 've waited for this damn DVD forever ... the first edition DVD was slop and went out of print so fast , I was lucky to find a video store copy to rent . No extras on that one ... but this one is the one to own .