We all have gotten to know Clint Eastwood through his handiwork . The countless early Western TV shows and movies he starred in introduced him to us . His role changed from Star to Superstar in his epic depictions of `` Dirty Harry , '' the hard boiled Inspector of Homicide . Since those days , we have seen his excellence as a director in many more excellent dramas and Westerns.Although controversial , we peered into his morality and sense of caring above and beyond the cultural senses of morality in Million Dollar Baby.And now , at the age where you would think that Dirty Harry would be merely lolling in retirement , drinking his beer and smoking his cigarettes on a front porch , Clint Eastwood directs and stars in a movie where he IS in retirement drinking beer and smoking cigarettes on the front porch , snarling at everyone , his neighbors , his war experiences , and his own family ! In Gran Torino , he shows that it is possible to teach an old dog new tricks . Ever steeped in hatreds , bigotries and racial stereotyping , he is slowly changed by his Hmong immigrant neighbors . As he takes a young teenage Hmong under his wing ( although in the beginning it was done to protect the only thing he truly loves , his vintage , mint condition 1972 Gran Torino , ) he steers young Thao away from the aimless Gang-bangers and `` Mans '' Thao up . ( Accordingly to his learned , inherited flawed standards . ) While doing so , he discovers that on the human emotional side , he truly has a lot more in common with the Immigrant Ethics than he has with his own kin ! As `` Walt '' softens and learns to appreciate the Immigrant 's generosity and hospitality , we see the true heart of our `` Dirty Harry . '' He has more purpose in life now than just hating everyone and loving his Gran Torino . When young Thao is `` man enough '' to go on a date , Walt even lets the young man ( who preciously tried to steal his True Love ) use his Gran Torino to take the young girl out on a date in style ! And when the neighborhood gang threaten and try to kill the immigrant family , Walt lets out the Dirty Harry in himself , and sacrifices himself to protect the people who have adopted the `` crusty old bastard '' as one of them ! Walt 's last request was to give Thao his Gran Torino . In the last scene when we see Thao driving Walt 's old Gran Torino , the car with the grille that scowled like Walt used to do , the joy on Thao 's face reveals that not only is Thao driving Walt 's soul . but Walt 's soul has been transplanted in young Thao ! If anything that Clint Eastwood has done in this movie that is worthwhile is this : To show how , in a changing America , that by embracing and celebrating the diversity in this country we all strengthen what this country is all about in the first place ! `` One among many , ''