I remember it like it was yesterday . I was 24 years old when this movie came out and living in Miami Florida . I had long hair ( real long ) and was dating an absolute hottie . So the weekend this movie came out I got dragged to this movie by my girlfriend . Actually it was a group of us , three couples and all the guys pretty much got dragged by their girlfriends . 24 year old , long haired guys into heavy metal music are not the type to enjoy a chick flick , so none of us were thrilled to be there . To make the movie a bit more enjoyable we were in a slightly `` altered state . '' But this little movie won us over ! And none of us were single at the time either . I also really related to the character of Matt Dillon because that is exactly how I was living my life at the time.I ca n't add anything more than what others have said , as the movie works so well because it 's not sappy , it 's not forced , it 's not cliche , and it 's not corny . There was just something so honest and natural about the film . And even though at the time I was seriously pissed off about the advent of grunge music killing off the precious heavy metal I loved so much , I ended up enjoying the music too . This was real grunge , before the music companies turned grunge into top 40 commercialized crap , and before the clothing designers/manufactures turned thrift shop clothing into extremely expensive high-end designer wear . It really sparked my interest in Seattle and I remember wanting to move their for a few years after seeing this movie ( never did ) .So as my title says , this is a chick flick even the guys will like because it escapes all of the classic trappings of the typical chick flick . The acting and writing are top notch , as is the music and the city of Seattle itself . I have since seen the film in a non-altered state and it has lost none of its charm , originality , and innocence . This movie captures a period in time that was fun , innocent , carefree , fresh , and exciting , before the dot com bubble , before 9/11 , before record high gas prices , and before the implosion of our entire economy . Not only do the 20 somethings of today not have a movie like Singles to call their own , they do n't have much a future to look forward to either .