Every once and a while a film comes along that has had almost no advertising or even a decent release to the general public , alas the purgatory of limited released and art house films . Yet in the case of Equilibrium I am more amazed as to why this never received a wider release . Upon seeing the movie I honestly did not have high expectations other then to see some cool gunplay and martial arts as the star of the film . While this factor did prove to be entertaining the true star belongs to the finely crafted script which pays homage to such novels as `` Brave New World '' , `` 1984 '' , and `` Fahrenheit 451 '' . The story places the viewer in the post-apocalyptic world of the future . Having suffered the aftermath of World War III the survivors banned together to form a new society one which would rid them of humanities greatest flaw , emotions . Controlled by a drug , which nullifies such senses the future is a utopia free from war , yet enslaved to those that wield power and the establishment created . Art , music , literature , all these are banned and the penalty for committing such sense-crimes is death.The most feared of the establishment 's protectors is the Cleric . A group of men trained in mind and body to be the perfect killing machines and the poster children of their ideals . One such Cleric , whom even executed his own partner for reading a book of poems , begins to see the world in a new light when he misses his regular dose and experiences a flood of emotions he had never felt before . While trying to maintain his duty he finds the cruel sadism of his appointed task almost more then he can bear . In a desperate search he tries to find the resistance and bring an end to the madness he has safeguarded.Christian Bale , playing the Cleric , is incredible giving depth and emotion to a role that demanded none . In this he makes the film all the more deeper . The cinematic style and editing while borrowed from such filmmakers as John Woo and Tsui Hark brings enough freshness while adapting such styles . The art direction is fitting in creating a claustrophobic world of grim lies . Although the backdrops of the city are not that impressive and are obviously CG effects . The music which is at times dark and laced with the foreboding conflict arising and then it is a fast paced techno score which sets the pace for the gun fire without missing a beat . In all Equilibrium is a Science Fiction fans dream come true , yet it is also a film that can be enjoyed by fans of classic literature as well . While the ending may seem over-simplified I actually found it to hold deeper meaning as well as an interesting commentary on humanity in general . But most will just be thrilled at the ending ten-minute gunfight , with an impressive sword duel to boot . Equilibrium contains strong violence and language and is recommend for ages 17 and up . For once style and substance collide on celluloid .