Ah , Gargoyles , at long last getting a well-deserved DVD release . This series is really excellent and has the honor of being one of Disney 's most mature animated series to date.The series centers around a group of living gargoyles , who are stone during the day and flesh at night . Due to a curse laid upon them , a small group of these creatures are frozen in stone for a thousand years before being reawakened in Manhattan in 1994 . Like all supernatural beings in Manhattan , they naturally decide to fight crime . It may sound cheesy , but in the hands of a splendid team of writers the series becomes way more than just another 'non-human superheroes fight crime ' story . Instead , Gargoyles becomes an interesting story with an engaging storyline and good characters.This series is helped by its ability to take risks -- the first episode even ends with what is essentially a mass murder . The show also tackles issues such as gun control in ways that are fairly mature and realistic while managing to be neither overly moralitsic or preachy . For example , the gun control episode 'Deadly Force ' ( shamefully omitted by Toon Disney in its run of the series due to the presence of guns and gunplay , despite its strong message *against* the unexperienced playing with such weapons and thankfully restored uncut in the DVD release ) gets its message across without having the characters stand around saying `` Guns are bad , mm'kay ? '' The series also has a tightness of continuity rarely seen in American animated cartoons ; actions in previous episodes effect later ones and episodes have a fairly set order -- unlike some of Disney 's other toons at the time , Gargoyles episodes generally had to be aired in the proper order in order to make sense . The series is also rife with references to Shakespeare ( as well as other things ; the first episode of season two contains , of all things , a Kafka joke that I did n't get for *years* ) .Gargoyles really is one of the most interesting and unique cartoon series in Disney 's vault . This DVD is a great buy for long time fans and highly recommended for new people curious as to what it 's all about . The first season sets up the rest of the series wonderfully and gives the viewer an idea of what this series is all about in general . I 'm already eagerly awaiting future releases of the rest of the series .