Whenever a film shoots for `` realism , '' it generally opens the door for a predictable set of signifiers : Handheld cameras , real locations , a naturalistic lighting scheme , streetwise dialogue , and tortured Method theatrics . In just two features , Funny Ha Ha and the new Mutual Appreciation , writer-director Andrew Bujalski has reconfigured the language to something much closer to the real thing . His DIY aesthetic and semi-improvisational dialogue has earned him frequent comparison to John Cassavetes , but he does n't care nearly as much for high-pitched emotion ; the characters in his films are awkward and inexpressive to the point where they ca n't say what they feel , at least not without fumbling around with it first . Mutual Appreciation is n't much more than a refinement of Funny Ha Ha , following a similar group of idle twentysomethings as they struggle with relationship issues and attempt to give their lives some traction . And yet it 's equally uncanny to watch , because Bujalski 's brand of stylized dialogue sounds genuinely fly-on-the-wall.The scruffily charismatic Justin Rice stars as a musician who moves to New York just after his band breaks up , which puts him in a weird spot , since he 's due to play later in the week . Once he arrives in town , Rice reconnects with his friend Bujalski , a good-natured graduate student , and Bujalski 's girlfriend Rachel Clift , to whom Rice begins to develop an unspoken ( and , as it happens , mutual ) attraction . Meanwhile , Rice finds a champion and more in attractive college radio DJ Seung-min Lee , but gets into trouble when he brings on Lee 's brother as his drummer and tries to get some distance from her romantically.All this intrigue sets up a romantic encounter between Rice and Clift , and a serious rupture in their relationship with Bujalski , but nothing in Mutual Appreciation goes according to the usual script . The scene in which Rice and Clift finally vocalize their feelings for each other is the perfect example of what Bujalski does so well : Any other romantic melodrama would have them bubbling over with passion , but these characters are painfully tentative and believably so , given that they 're both betraying someone they care about . What ends up happening between them is completely unexpected , yet entirely true to who they are and to how most caring people would act . But such things rarely happen onscreen , and Bujalski 's willingness to follow through makes him a singular talent .