Nobody can drench a book in creepy , dank atmosphere like Neil Gaiman , infused with humor and more than a little horror.Fortunately that flavour is kept alive in the movie adaptation of `` Coraline , '' brought to life by the talented Henry Selick . It 's a haunting little dark fairy tale full of decayed apartments , dancing rats and eerie soulless doppelgangers , as well as a gutsy heroine who finds herself in this ominous `` other '' world.Newly moved into an aged apartment , Coraline ( Dakota Fanning ) is bored . Her parents are too busy to do anything with her , and her neighbors are either insane or boring . The one exception is Wybie , a boy who annoys her no end.It 's the sort of relentlessly dull world that any little girl would want to escape from -- until Coraline does . She encounters a plastered-up door and a colourful wormhole , leading to a doppelganger of new home . In fact , it 's so similar that she has a button-eyed `` other mother '' ( Teri Hatcher ) and matching `` other father , '' ( John Hodgman ) as well as great food , games , a shimmering magic garden , a chorus of circus rodents and magic toys.At first Coraline is fascinated by the other world , especially since her other parents are as attentive as her real ones are n't . Then she finds her real parents sealed inside a mirror . With the help of a sarcastic cat , Coraline ventures back into the other world . But with her parents and a trio of dead children held hostage , Coraline 's only hope is to gamble with her own freedom -- and she 'll be trapped forever if she fails.Neil Gaiman 's book `` Coraline '' is a brilliant dark fairy-tale vibe -- decayed apartments , dead children , spiderwebs , beetles , disembodied hands , button eyes , and an insectile button-eyed woman who wants to claim Coraline for herself . It 's a fairy tale world that turns into a nightmare realm where souls are lost and horrific things scuttle in the shadows.Most directors would turn the story into a cutsy , unscary affair ... but not the director of `` The Nightmare Before Christmas '' and `` James and the Giant Peach . '' Instead , Selick gives it a dark , cobwebby atmosphere , brilliant colours and surreal details ( the button eclipsing the moon ) . And it 's full of lovely details that could have been silly ( the creepy-crawly claw hand ) yet work brilliantly.The story starts off as merely surreal , but grows more ghastly and eerie as the movie unwinds -- and in the last third , the slow-moving story suddenly spins into a thoroughly spooky territory , and a truly terrifying climax where the Other Mother shows her true self . And along the way , there are plenty of wonderfully creepy moments -- the three ghosts in a rotting bedroom/mirror , the offering of buttons and thick black thread , weird circus acts , and much more . The horror is subtle , the delicious creepiness is not.Coraline -- the Alice in this Notsowonderland -- is a wonderful little heroine : strong , sensible , self-sufficient but still fairly freaked out about what is happening around her . Normally I 'm not crazy about Dakota Fanning , but voice-only she 's quite good in this role.The sarcastic cat is a wonderful counterpoint , and the movie 's original character Wybie makes a nice companion ( albeit an extraneous one ) . And the other mother is the stuff of nightmares -- she 's utterly inhuman and merciless , and by the movie 's climax she 's become the stuff of nightmares . Oh , and French and Saunders make a pair of fun cameos as the kooky neighbors . `` Coraline '' is a brilliantly dark little movie , full of dark magic and eerie creatures -- definitely for fans of Gaiman , dark fantasy and really creepy stuff .