Breakdown is a terrifying movie that enters the timeliest fears of our time , joyfully and perhaps sardonically representing what happens when we find out that our $ 50,000 sport utility vehicle is n't enough to protect us from all the nasty human unsavory people that are out there in the world just waiting to kick us a big on in the face.Kurt Russell is Jeff Taylor and his wife , Amy ( Kathleen Quinlan ) , have pulled up roots in Massachusetts to move cross-country via the driving method . After talking to a redneck trucker because their Jeep breaks down in the Utah desert , the terrifing fun begins . Just like in Spielberg 's Duel , malevolence arrives in the semblance of a big truck . The trucker named Red ( J.T . Walsh ) agrees to give Amy a lift to the nearest pay phone while Jeff stays with the car.Now , it 's easy to wonder why in the world Jeff would let his wife ride off with a total stranger in an 18 wheeler , but put yourself in the same situation and you would probably do the same thing . One goes to get help , the other stays with the automobile.Amy disappears , never turning up at Belle 's Diner , where she was supposed to meet with Jeff . The customers have never seen her . And when Jeff chases down Red 's rig , Amy is nowhere to be found . Worse , Red claims that he 's never seen Jeff before in his life.What now happens is , `` lets find the wife . '' What an awesome thrill ride that the entire cast gives , especially Russell as the nervous , ready to enter the booby hatch husband who let his wife loose the grip of his loving hand back on that lonesome highway when a nice trucker said , `` Come with me , I can help . '' Russell turns out an amazing performance as the obsessed husband who let his wife get away . He becomes totally focused , almost obsessively so to find out why this town has never seen his wife , lips are shut tight and you definitely get the opinion this is CreepVille , Utah.Rent it . What a fun ride . You will have sweaty palms throughout .