First of all , you ca n't watch this DVD if you are any sort of politically correct weird-o . Every stereotype , from the metal heads , the religious father , and the gender studies professor , is reinforced and ruthlessly beaten with brutal sarcasm.So , if you could possibly be offended by this , DO NOT WATCH IT ! ! ! There , now if you can take things with a grain of salt , and you like extremely ruthless comedy , then Dirtbags is the movie for you ! You get a group of college metalhead burn outs , each of them trying to acheive a specific goal in life ( usually involving procuring sexual favors from women ) , and getting themselves involved in wacky situations from which there is usually no escape , just a further plunge into absolute degeneracy . I 'm sure that there is some type of thesis in this for all you college kids out there ... maybe that one can never achieve thier goals through dishonest means ? Ah , I do n't think so . There probably is no point , but it does n't matter ! And you have to love the characters , who are all so colorful and odd that no fiction could ever fully create them . These are real images out of life ... I have actually seen male gender studies professors and the Ogre-gym man types , so this is stranger than fiction.As I have said , this film is politically incorrect . No , I take that back ; it 's ANTI-political correctness . It 's great to see that someone has gone to the extreme and fully made fun of political correctness , exposing it for the absurdity to which it has been brought . If there is no other redeeming qualities of this movie in the eyes of the vast public , at least it 's the social criticism that makes South Park looks as tame as Sesame Street.The random , cheesy computer generated graphics ( the skeleton during the pizza man 's romp through campus , the bee flying into the soda can , the chick drowning over and over and over in the river ) add a nice touch of B-movie quirk , and bear testament to the ingeniousness of homemade movies . I personally find these things great.The scenes of random nudity are , in my humble opinion , more for sheer randomness than gratituous drooling on the part of the viewer . Why is there a scene of a naked lady for several minutes ? Because it 's random and so utterly stupid that it becomes rather funny.I must , however , subract one star for two reasons : one , the fact that this DVD does not have chapter selections ( you can only watch the film all the way through ) , and two , the sound . With the sound , there is always music playing , and sometimes this overpowers the dialogue ( extremely annoying ! ) , and due to the low budget , some of the dialogue is not expertly recorded , so it 's low in the mix anyway.The first time I watched this , I did n't really get it , but when I watched it a second time , I was cracking up hysterically . Throw in a cameo by Peter Steele of Type O Negative , a fantastic soundtrack including Immolation , Candlemass , and a smattering of various goofy songs , and you 're in for a real treat ! ... That is , if you 're not afraid to NOT take this seriously .