In movies , as in most other art forms , the greatest of works often come in the smallest of packages . Such is the case with `` The Five Senses , '' an independent Canadian production that chooses for its subject nothing less profound than a meditation on what it means to be human . Writer/director Jeremy Podeswa has fashioned a work of great poetic form and insight centered around a group of people who share the universal need to find true love and acceptance in a world where wounded and shattered relationships all too often result in magnified loneliness and despair . Like all of us , each of these characters gropes towards the dual goals of intimacy with others and acceptance of oneself that are essential for human happiness . Some succeed , while others fail - just as in life - but none of the characters is left unchanged by the experience . `` The Five Senses , '' though it has a plot , is more of an emotional mood piece than a narrative-driven drama . Blessed with an outstanding ensemble cast , Podeswa is able to draw us in to the center of his world through the use of sensory imagery and deliberate , methodical pacing . In fact , one of the strongest themes running through the film is its examination of the part our senses play in defining our world and character . Podeswa understands that we have become desensitized to our senses . As a result , he uses this film to reconnect us to that crucial element of our beings . The quiet , hushed tone , the muted autumnal colors , the slowly moving camera , the haunting musical score all combine to create an atmosphere in which the audience can become conscious of every sight and sound that comes our way . In our effort to establish meaningful intimacy with other human beings , we most typically rely on the sense of touch - yet , this can serve , Podeswa shows us , as much to trap us into a false intimacy as to lead us into one that is genuine and lasting . A number of his characters use sex as a substitute for true closeness , while others make a physical connection on a much deeper level . One of the most moving moments in the film occurs when a gay man - most probably an AIDS patient - breaks down in tears during a massage session , his heart broken because no one has dared to touch him in so long a time . This film acknowledges the vital part that tender physical contact plays in the totality of a person 's humanity . In a similar way , the film explores the beauty of sound , as one of the characters - ironically , an eye doctor , a man dedicated to preserving the organ of one sense - faces the prospect of impending deafness and yearns to create a mental catalogue of all the exquisite sounds of everyday life that he will soon no longer be able to hear and that we so routinely take for granted . Yet , like all the other characters , it is his spiritual emptiness and inability to make a meaningful connection with another human being that bring him his greatest obstacles to happiness . Podeswa also examines the part smell plays in making that vital human connection , as one of the characters - a lonely gay man - revisits his former lovers to take a whiff of their scent in an effort to discover if he can smell `` true love . `` Yet `` The Five Senses '' is not merely a movie built on a clever `` gimmick . '' On the contrary , it breathes with the fullness of humanity because each of its many characters emerges as a fully developed , instantly recognizable human being . There are teenagers alienated by their own inability to fit into the accepted norm of society and made to feel guilty by their acts of careless irresponsibility . There are mothers terrified of losing their children , in one case , literally , as her young girl wanders off and disappears and , in another case , figuratively , as her adolescent daughter seems to be slipping away into inexplicable `` strangeness . '' There are adults unable to comprehend a life filled with failed relationships who strike out in desperation for that one last opportunity for happiness , often with the result that they end up further away from that universally desired goal than ever . One of the most daring aspects of `` The Five Senses '' is that it does not succumb to the temptation to provide either a `` happy '' ending or even a conclusive one for all of its characters . The film acknowledges that life is a messy , never ending process of changing fortunes and personal growth and it stays true to that theme all the way to the end.This brave , haunting and mesmerizing film definitely stands as one of the true movie finds of recent years - a true work of art !