It is difficult to find words to begin to describe this fantastic show . First of all , the writing is superb . There are elements of this story that cause the viewer to jump online , or run to the local library to dig up more information about what is presented . There is a richness in the storytelling that is not often seen on television today . For every thing we are told , there are close to twenty things we are not told ... which truly involves the viewer in the show . It encourages active viewing , speculation , discussion , and research among other things . That is not to say that one could not simply watch the show and get a supreme level of enjoyment form it . The first season , I was a quasi-active viewer , and still found it to be the best show I had ever seen . The imagery the dialogue creates is beyond belief . And of course , what is great writing without great talent to deliver the lines ? In the forefront , there are powerful actors such as Clancy Brown as the conflicted Brother Justin , and Nick Stahl as the quiet yet intriguing Ben Hawkins . To see the seemingly unconnected stories between these two characters evolve is an amazing event . The show also features Tim DeKay , Clea Duvall , Cynthia Ettinger , Amy Madigan , Michael J. Anderson , Toby Huss , Brian Turk , Adrienne Barbeau , John Savage and even Pa Walton himself , Ralph Waite . If one is a fan of anyone of these actors , their talents are highlighted in this series . Emotions run high through the entire first season , and these actors know exactly how to portray them . And what is great writing and beautiful acting without a spectacular back drop for the action to take place ? From the windy sandstorms of Dustbowl Oklahoma to the beautiful country side of rural California , every set is perfect . The eyes are given gorgeous images to absorb . Finally , and most importantly , the sheer involvement of the stor alone . As I mentioned previously , this show makes one an active viewer . If you have ever , for a moment , believed in the age of wonder ... the magic of the past ... this series is definately worth the money . Elements of our every day lives are brought into question , and an entirely new world is created before your eyes . I challenge every person who buys the first season DVDs to watch only one episode at a time . Watch one and wait a week before you view another . I bet you ca n't . You will find yourself eager to see what happens next . If you did not think this was possible with a television show , remember ... it 's not television ... it 's HBO .