I felt compelled to write a review of this film for several reason . First and foremost because this is one of my all-time favorite films . I never tire of watching this film over and over and sharing with others that have not yet had the pleasure of watching it . I also wanted to write this review because so many younger movie fans immediately dismiss older films and especially black and white films . And lastly , I wanted to put my two cents in after reading the `` professional critic 's '' review ... mis-cast ? ? ? HOW could there ever be a more perfectly , better cast film ? ? ? Gregory Peck , who I had come to revere as Atticus Finch in `` To Kill A Mockingbird '' ( he is the reason I wanted to become a lawyer when I was child ) , and Audrey Hepburn has the perfect mix of innocence and fearlessness for her role as the rebellious Princess . Even Eddie Albert as the comedic side-kick was ideal . This film follows a Princess who , at first glance , lives an enviable life of wealth and fame and glamour . I have always had a hard time finding any compassion for the complaints of similar people be it in real life or on film , but somehow Audrey Hepburn pulls it off and it is not difficult to cheer for her as she experiences such basic things as deciding how her hair should be cut and eating an ice cream . While Gregory Peck is undeniably smooth as the rogue American journalist , he also is able to pull off the needed sleaziness to make his role beleivable . You have to be able to understand his initial motivation does NOT come from a `` good place '' , but merely out of greed and selfishness ... . but then you have to also beleive his change of heart and its subtleness . And it works . He does n't suddenly wake up and have a change of heart . You can see his transformation , or relevation as it may be , over the course of the film . As a closet romantic I have to say I always secretly hope there will be a better ending ( and by `` better '' I do not mean in terms of movie quality . I mean in terms of a classic `` happy ending '' ) . The final scene is heart wrenching , yet the only plausible possible way it could end . I am always left wondering what the heck happened later , despite knowing full well the answer ... and it is n't necessarily what we 'd all like to imagine . But I respect the fact that the movie does n't spell it out and does n't wrap it all up in a lovely bow . Still a tear-jerker ending , but exactly as it should be.Please see this movie . You will want to own it afterwards I promise . And do n't be fooled , it is not just some old , out-dated `` chick flick . '' It 's just good . Oh yeah , and that *sigh factor* ... HUGE ! Enjoy and share with younger audiences so this classic will never be lost to modern blockbusters .