Marcel Carne 's Children of Paradise succeeds on so many levels that it rightfully deserves to be called one of the greatest films of all time . Carne filmed the movie piecemeal during the Nazi occupation of Paris . His film was officially supported despite the occupation , as the Nazis wanted to show that they were friendly to the arts . This created the ironic situation where Carne was taking money from the government to support a film by day and funneling help to the French resistance at night.One actor was supposedly a nazi collaborator . He mysteriously disappeared during filming and had to be replaced . Despite all of these obstacles , Carne has managed to recreate 19th Century Paris magnificently . In this manner , the film itself is a triumph of the creative spirit.The title refers to the poor , who could only afford seats so high in the theater that they were almost in the rafters ... and yet , these were the real audiences the actors performed for . The story is a series of intersecting lives that all revolve in one way or another around the bohemian , world weary Garance ( played in Mona Lisa fashion by Arletty ) . Beyond this , the film also revolves around 1840 's theater life in Paris : the actors , the audience , and all those in between . Garance is almost a courtesan : she moves conveniently between four men who love her , seemingly unaffected by any of them ... in the end , she falls in love with the mime Baptiste ( Jean-Louis Barrault ) ... . but Baptiste is married to another woman after missing his chance with Garance years earlier . Will they get together ? In the end , we , the viewers are as much the Children of the Gods , or Children of Paradise , that the title refers to as the theater audiences in the film . Indeed , both the opening and closing credits are played against a theater curtain . We are the viewers in the Gods , and the actors are performing for us by living their lives : loving , living , dying ... feeling both pain and joy . Carne 's film is over three hours long , but never lags . The stories intersect each other and can not be adequately described in a simple review such as this ... Four men love Garance , and in a way all their lives intersect in and around the theater.The cinematography is amazing . There is a crowd scene at the end of the film that stands up to anything ever filmed : it is simply magnificent . Baptiste is lost ( in many ways ) in a seething moving mass of humanity . This scene alone is reason enough to see the film.I suspect that this is a film that people either love or hate . The long length may put off many people , but this is a shame . The film is n't for those who want instant gratification . Instead , it is something to be enjoyed and savored . If all of this makes it sound too serious , be assured it is n't . Children of Paradise is a tragedy in some ways but it is also a comedy in the Shakespearian sense . This was a film made for a company like Criterion , and they do it justice in their dvd edition . The two halves of the film are presented on individual disks , so the film never suffers from compression flaws or other problems . The restoration is flawless : you would never know that this film is almost sixty years old . The audio is mono but very clean , with no hiss or static . Criterion has also included some supplements , inverviews , filmographies , trailers , etc , but the real treat is the film itself . It is timeless .