I 'll admit that I 've never seen films by Mario Bava . I 've only recently gotten into Italian Cinema with the films of Dario Argento and other Giallo taken up my interest . Until now I had never tried any Bava . So hearing of this film and being intrigued with the premise I picked up the DVD.The premise of the film is four criminals rob a pharmaceutical companies payroll during which the getaway driver is killed . The three remaining killers flee to a parking lot taking hostages , one of which they kill in order to escape . Afterwards in order not to be spotted by police in a familiar car they pull off and take more hostages this time a middle aged man and a sick child . At this point the films been a violent crime film . When it gets in the car the film is basically centered on the drive of the criminals and their hostages . Whats good in the film despite minor flaws is that even in its form ( neither Rabid Dogs or the re-edited Kidnapped was completed with Bava 's support due to circumstances which earned its `` lost '' status until recently ) its a really well assembled suspense thriller building its tension slowly . As tensions in the car rise and victims plead for their lives even the criminals begin to turn against each other . One wants to rape the woman hostage , while another goes along with what ever happens while the leader is more concerned with just getting to their destination . There are moments in the film that to me were great in a transgressive way that newer films could n't even come close to topping . And in the end , I do n't want to ruin it but if you get into the plot as much I did it will definitely suprise you . I was totally blown away by the film . One thing also is the feeling of anger that seeps from every frame . This is a brutal film to watch at times with its portrayl of a world that is vain arrogant and rather brutal in considering the plight of the hostages ( especially the child ) . To me its a film that in tone could almost compare to one of my favorites , Kurosawa 's Ran.Unfortunately I 've only viewed the Rabid Dogs cut on the new Anchor Bay disc . It also contains Lamberto Bava 's edit Kidnapped more in line with his fathers intentions which I will watch in the future but was turned off for the synthesizer score ( I just love the harpsichord and organs blaring in Rabid Dogs even though admittedly the score is incesant ) and did n't want to watch the film so soon after seeing it . Still this a definite recommend from me , worth viewing .