This Is It shows that to the very end the King of Pop possessed all the elements that made him a superstar . Here we see the preparation for his ill-fated London Comeback , but even though we all know how this story ends you ca n't help but smile when you see Michael in his home element and just having fun . The most intriguing part about this documentary is the lack of actual Michael Jackson dialogue , but you can totally feel in his expressions the gears that work busily within ; he was pouring every ounce of effort he could muster into this final effort to thrill the world.This is Michael Jackson unlike he 's been seen in years . Here he sings all of his songs live , even fast-past ones such as Jam , They Do n't Care About Us , and Smooth Criminal - this element also really shows the fans how truly exhausting it was for him to put give the crowds dancing and singing , and this footage makes it obvious why for the Dangerous and History tours he had to lip sync several faster numbers.Many signature MJ dance moves are omitted , and I wish we could have seen some of the rehearsal footage without the occasional distraction of the 3-D short films ( wish they had put it in a split screen so we could see that footage AND the stage performance at the same time ) .Highlight performances of the rehearsal are definitely as follows : They Do n't Care About UsI Just Ca n't Stop Loving YouI 'll Be ThereThriller ( totally new production than the one used in Dangerous and History tours ! ) Beat It ( first time in years I 've seen him do the dance same as he did in 1982 ! ) The others are good as well , but none of them are nearly as crisp , or polished as those numbers of the rehearsal . Key point of this rehearsal footage is getting to getting to hear him sing his hits live , and it would have been better if the This Is It album included those instead of the studio versions ... Also , Michael 's new female guitarist is great ( on the eyes and on the ears ) .Many signature MJ dance moves are omitted , and I wish we could have seen some of the rehearsal footage without the occasional distraction of the 3-D short films ( wish they had put it in a split screen so we could see that footage AND the stage performance at the same time ) . So in fairness it is n't at all an MJ concert experience , but it does have all the elements of one.The tagline of `` Get to know the man you never knew '' is n't really accurate because there 's very little of actual Michael Jackson dialogue outside of seeing him say `` God bless you '' to everyone in the production team and noting when he thinks something needs to be changed about the way something 's being done.All and all this is probably going to be remembered as being the greatest concert that never happened in the history of music . From these few , vague snippets of what the actual This Is It concert we can see that Michael would have had a huge comeback through this concert series , and that once more he has proven that he was , and always will be the King of Pop.It is a reminded , that even though tabloids tried to cast him in evil light , Michael Jackson 's ONLY message was one of love . L.O.V.E . plain and simple .