The 60 's Italian Job is well known to British audiences , for whom the movie is as regular a fixture of Christmas television scheduling as James Bond films , The Great Escape and the Queen 's speech . Negative reviews by US viewers are as much a result of the lack of a culture context and unfamiliarity with many of the ensemble cast . The film has aged well and provides an amusing , if rather rose-tinted , snapshot of 60 's British culture.The cast includes Noel Coward as Mr Bridger , the criminal mastermind , and Michael Caine as the foppish Charlie Croker . British audiences will recognise a host of well known actors in cameo roles , including Benny Hill and John Le Mesurier.The stars of the film though are undoubtedly the cars . Amusingly , the array of 60 's supercars including a Lamborghini Muira , E-Type Jaguars and Charlie 's Aston Martin are overshadowing by the three Mini Coopers which lead the Italian police on an amazing car chase through Turin . Remy Julienne and his stunt driving team produced one of the most amazing and well known , at least to British audiences , car chases on film . Arguably it still rates as one of the best car chase sequences and all the more so because the stunts were actually filmed on location in Turin ( and Coventry in the case of the sewer scenes ) and in cars with minimal modifications.There are many memorable moments in the movie beyond the Mini Cooper sequence . Caine 's 'blow the doors off ' , Benny Hill 's larger lady obsessed Professor Peach on the tram in Turin and the 'hanging ' ending stick out in my mind.The extra features on the DVD are good but not truly outstanding . The 'Making Of ' documentary provides a number of interesting insights into the movie . The commentary overlay track is a little stilted but worth a listen . There is only really one deleted scene , the rather amazing 'Blue Danube ' car ballet on ice.In summary , this is a true British classic with a great cast , score and storyline . A nice snapshot of 60 's London , a fantastic ( at least for UK audiences ) cast and the superb car chase scene make this one to buy . The Hollywood remake , whilst not a bad movie in its own right , shares only the title , a storyline based on a gold heist and the updated BMW Mini with the original.And for anyone wondering about the original Mini 's , they really are that small and that much fun to drive .