Now I have n't seen every film Academy Award winner Michael Caine 's been in , but I 've seen enough to know this feature , simply titled Get Carter ( 1971 ) , is definitely one of his more unappreciated features . Based on Ted Lewis ' novel titled `` Jack 's Return Home '' , and adapted for the screen and directed by Mike Hodges ( The Terminal Man , Flash Gordon , Croupier ) , the film stars , as I 've mentioned , Michael Caine ( Zulu , Too Late the Hero , Sleuth , Hannah and Her Sisters ) , who was originally born Maurice Joseph Micklewhite ( how 's that for a useless bit of trivia ? ) . Also appearing is Ian Hendry ( Captain Kronos - Vampire Hunter ) , Britt Ekland ( The Wicker Man ) , John Osborne ( Tomorrow Never Comes ) , Geraldine Moffat ( The Last Chapter ) , Alun Armstrong ( Krull ) , and Bryan Mosley ( Far from the Madding Crowd ) .Caine plays Jack Carter , an enforcer type for a London mob who returns to his hometown of Newcastle ( a bleak , dreary industrial town on the northern coast ) to attend the funeral of his brother , who died in a rather mysterious car accident . Carter , suspicious of the incident , sets himself up at a local boarding house and prodding into the seedy underbelly of the local underworld , soon discovering there 's more to his brother 's death than what 's put forth in the ` official ' recounting . After some toughs encourage him to leave ( to which they get their skulls cracked for their efforts ) , Carter begins unraveling the loosely threaded tapestry of lies surrounding his brother 's untimely demise , taking him from low level thugs and sleazy broads , all the way up to a couple of local criminal bigwigs , but not before snogging the mouthy landlady ( anything to shut her up , I suppose ) . Along the way the plot becomes convoluted , but the various bits of information eventually all lead to the same place , a mobbed up pornographer ( among other things ) named Kinnear ( Osborne ) , whose got strong ties to Carter 's bosses back in London , who , by the way , are against Carter 's mucking about if only not to cause waves in the underworld community ( after all , business is business ) . Once Carter gets the straight dope , he begins methodically setting things right , taking his aggressions out various individuals involved , a few of which end up dead , determined to make those responsible , every single one of them , suffer for their transgressions . Thing is , once you start messing about with established rackets , you have to expect there to be reprisals , and there are , as it seems everyone is now out to get Carter ... Caine is about as good here as anything I 've seen him in , and that 's saying a lot . He 's a calm , collected , completely remorseless killer , one certainly not afraid to get his hands dirty , has no fear in terms of anything he does coming back to haunt him , using any means at his disposal to achieve his goals . That 's not to say he does n't care for anything ( he seems to have affection for his niece ) , but he does n't let these affections get in the way of his business . To him , the ends always appear to justify the means , and those who get caught up along the way are n't really his concern . Actually , to hear tell it seemed Carter and his brother did n't get a long all that well , and the real rub for Carter in his brother 's death was more or less a disrespect of Carter himself . In one scene we see the result of an acquaintance catching a thrashing , as the man 's now laid up in his flat , and Carter makes light of the situation by offering him a wad of money , telling him to use it for karate lessons , and this guy was supposed to be one of Carter 's friends ! In Carter 's defense , his world is pretty much limited to slimy , underworld types , so obviously it would n't pay to get too close to anyone , in terms of interpersonal relationships . There 's a real sense throughout he only cultivates relationships in order to further his own ends , and once that 's achieved , he cares little what happens afterwards . I really loved the scenes when Carter first returned home . It 's not that he was all full of swagger and such , but his presence did sort of command a level of respect from those who saw him for what he was ... a local who had made enough of a name form himself to move on to bigger and better things , but never denied his humble beginnings . As far as the rest of the performers , they 're all solid and very capable , providing the proper support , but this is Caine 's film , and he carries it well . The first time I saw this film , a few years ago , the pacing felt slow , but watching it again last night I 've since decided it 's more deliberate than slow . What 's the difference ? Well , I 'll tell you ... I found myself keenly interested Caine 's character . Sure he was a bad dude , but he was a bad dude with a purpose , and while the plot was convoluted at times , I believed it to be intentionally so , mirroring the very realistic fact things are n't always cut and dry , black and white . One aspect of this feature that stands out is the locations used for the filming . Newcastle is presented as a dingy , depressing town of decay , one that once bustled with industrial life , but has since fallen into a state of continual disrepair , its carcass dominated by criminal elements . Even the newer structures all seem imbued with the stale stink of poverty , providing an appropriate backdrop for the story and capturing a real moment in time , so to speak . All in all an under-rated , first-class thriller/edgy British crime drama worth checking out if you 're into that sort of thing.The picture , presented in anamorphic widescreen ( 1.74:1 ) , looks decent , but does exhibit some of the minor flaws one might expect from a film released in 1971 . As far as the Dolby Digital mono audio , it does come through well enough , but does seem lacking in some areas . As far as extras , there is a commentary track featuring Michael Caine , director Mike Hodges , and cinematographer Wolfgang Suschitzky , along with a theatrical trailer , a brief biography of Caine , a music only audio track , and English and French subtitles.Cookieman108By the way , Sylvester Stallone appeared in a rather dismal remake ( comparatively speaking ) of this film with the same title , released in 2000 . Author Ted Lewis ' novel was also adapted into a blaxpoitation feature titled Hit Man ( 1972 ) , starring Bernie Casey ( Brian 's Song , Revenge of the Nerds ) and Pam Grier ( Coffy , Foxy Brown ) .