I have another video by Scott Cole and Janis Saffell which I like very much . This video is an excellent all around Tia Chi routine with stretching . There are 3 sections.The first section is `` The Original Millenniums Stretch Workout '' from 1999 and it 's kind of funny because the women in the practice have waist level pants and its looks out of style , but the women are in great shape and the workout options are excellent . The people are not phonies , but real people that are into these practices . It is broken into 6 sections : Intro , Standing Movement , Standing Stretching , Hands & Knees , and Guided Imagery . The other two sections are `` Millennium Stretch for 2 '' and `` Beyond the 8 Poses of Empowerment . `` In section one , it 's nice that the introduction is in a separate menu item ; you probably only need to listen to it once . Scott explains briefly that the video consists of yoga , tai chi , feldenkrais ( movement therapy ) , stretching techniques , and body meditation . He then goes on to introduce each of the students , 3 women and 2 men.The Standing section is a very nice flow that incorporates deep breathing to let go of tension . Tai chi movements with very nice gentle instruction are easy for beginners to follow and a nice change for athletic people to slow down and learn some new energy movements . Scott shows his `` 8 poses of empowerment '' which is a lovely series of grounding , ( churning energy ) , centering , lifting , embracing , balancing ( with ball of chi energy ) , expanding , returning , and releasing ( although I counted 9 ) . It is a series of movements you can do every day to help you relax and center . Scott has a very soothing voice , yet very fun and positive instructor . Then he moves into a standing stretch series which he holds for a perfect amount of time . This series will make you feel so nice and open ! I love the seated section . You can do it separately or right after the standing section . Sometimes I just want to do floor poses in my morning practice , so this section is perfect . It starts with a cross legged forward stretch , then side bends , diagonal shoulder stretch ( seated Martha Graham ) , energy in lower back and sides ( working out emotional stuff ) , feldenkrais twist ( movement , visualize , then movement again ) , thigh stretch and body awareness of point/rotation , hamstring stretch ( with buns away , he 's so funny ! ) , twist , buttocks stretch ( really helps my stiatica ! ) , cross angle forward bend ( wow , this was totally new to me , calf stretch ) , and much , much more . He holds the stretches for a good amount of time , so you wo n't feel hurried . During this section he also shows how you can help your partner with some of the stretches ... so call your honey in during these segments ! Hands and knees is a movement of cat/cow is a very slow , lovely pace . I had a teacher years ago that practice in a slow manner like Scott 's ... it 's so nice to do this segment . He shows you how to help your partner too . This segment goes on with more floor postures , excellent movements , and child 's pose relaxation which I totally love . He gives you lots of versions or different options in the postures.The guided imagery is fabulous . It is performed in savasana ( lying on your back ) . He goes through a beautiful visualization of white light throughout your body , part by part awareness and relaxation . He wakes you up slowly with movement , and then sits up with a lovely of body awareness , then standing with breathing , sound , slow-mo movement , and then affirmations . You will feel totally wonderful after this relaxation segment ! The couples stretch includes separate menu items too . Intro , warm-up , standing stretching , seated stretching , and assisted stretching from 2001 . It is set in the same room as the video I have with Janis Saffell and Karen Voight . It is a different group of close-together partner/students than the first . It starts with a fairly fast standing movement and the whole section is a lot more upbeat . This is kind-of a funny section ... it 's like taking a dance class , but could be fun with a friend or lover and includes some excellent ideas for stretching , connecting , and really helping each other to stretch further . It goes on towards the end in a seated connection , then helping each other up to standing and connecting with chi movement . He ends this segment with a mini-Elvis :0 ) then affirmation.The 3rd section goes over Scott 's 8 poses of empowerment . He goes thru the movements so you can practice further or simply watch him practice to learn the form . This is a very short section and also includes a very quick video clip of the four affirmation poses.Scott is in great shape , good looking guy , with a very kind , gentle voice with a super playful undertone ! The class setting is perfect in this video and will make you feel like you 're actually in a live class . His videos are great and this is one of my very favorites ! ! ! scottcole dot com is his website