The Bride With White Hair 2 followed quickly upon the success of the original movie , taking up the tragic story of Cho Yi-Hang ( Leslie Cheung ) and his forbidden love Lien Ni-Chang ( Brigitte Lin ) . By betraying his sacred pledge that he would never doubt his beloved , Cho has unleashed a monster . Ni-Chang 's fury over Cho 's betrayal drives her completely mad , transforming her into the white-haired witch who lives only to destroy every living member of the Eight Clans , especially the Wu Tang clan to which Cho belongs . As for Cho , he has retreated to Mount Shin Fung , guarding over a mystical flower whose bloom ( and it only blooms once every twenty years ) can cleanse and restore the woman he still loves.Ten years have passed since the deadly night that Ni-Chang went mad and almost single-handedly destroyed the Wu Tang clan . Only two members of the clan survive : Cho , who has stood guard at Mount Shin Fung under blizzard conditions all these years , and Cho 's nephew Kit ( Sunny Chan ) . With Kit 's impending marriage to Lyre ( Joey Maan ) , the opportunity to further the bloodline exists - and so it is that Ni-Chang crashes the party , kidnaps the young bride , and takes her back to her own private castle full of man-hating , deadly women . There , Lyre is indoctrinated in the witch 's `` See a man , kill a man '' philosophy and programmed to kill Kit with her own hands.The Eight Clans send their best warriors to try and kill the witch and rescue Lyre , but they are all almost defenseless against Ni-Chang , who uses her deadly hair as a most effective weapon ( sounds weird , I know , but it works really well ) . It soon becomes clear that the only person who might be able to defeat the white witch is Cho Yi-Hang , and this sets the stage for a most unforgettable reunion between the two former lovers.This sequel is a more direct , action-oriented film than the original The Bride With White Hair , and for that reason I actually found it more enjoyable on the surface . Still , though , it lacks the depth and beauty of the original , largely because the two lovers do not meet again face to face until the final scene - although that meeting is well worth the wait . Most certainly , if you 've seen and enjoyed the original , you 'll want to experience this sequel .