I may not be able to add much to the reviews , whose praise I agree with wholeheratedly on the content of this magnificent film , but I still felt compelled to offer my two cents on the BluRay , which is equally fantastic . With the full measure of the gloriousness of the sheer granduer of the backdrop for this story now rightfully restored in HiDef , the inherent drama of the storyline now , finally , at long last , has an equally worthy canvas on which to be presented - a fact that 's been perpetually lost on every other video presentation of it I 've seen before . It is actually an awe-inspiring revalation as to the intended impact of this film and , from any and all previous video editions of it , indeed a transformation from a first-rate adventure of otherwise acceptably good scale to a first-rate adventure and overall a remarkable spectacle ! I dare say it did n't approach looking this good to me when I recall seeing it in my local theater all those years ago . For that matter , it looks so good , I do n't think anyone would dream , from its appearance here , that this film is in fact closing in on its 50th anniversary . From the opening credits , I see that the film was originally shot in 70mm , thus with far more detail than the more common 35mm films films have . You can expect similar performance in HiDef with other films of the 65 or 70mm variety , like 2001 : A Space Odessy or Lawrence of Arabia - IF the disc transfer is good - and here it certainly is . The image within the frame on this disc is always , and utterly , as steady as the Rock of Gibralter . There was only the very most minor amount of flicker , as seen on my setup , but , again , only rarely and scarcely noticable when it was seen - still not sure if the disc was actually to blame or not . Not a hint of moire , anywhere.The sound is quite good and far better than I had any reason to hope . Although John Barry 's superb score was apparently originally in mono , it 's by far the best I 've heard from it before - it even has a better impression than the original ( mono ) soundtrack available on CD , if my memory serves . Yet , the sound effects track on this disc is either true stereo , or , more likely , was derived from various isolated sound effects elements and then `` panned '' during post production . There are even some nice extras : more than two documentaries on the making of the film , film commentary , the theatrical trailer and even a brief , but interesting , interview with John Barry himself , pertaining to the origins of his ideas for the score . But , all in all , I do love it so when such a majestic and monumental movie as this gets the royal treatment that it does here . Sometimes , presentation is everything ! Highly , highly recommended ! !