& quot ; Coffy & quot ; ( 1973 ) made Pam Grier a star , & quot ; Foxy Brown & quot ; ( 1974 ) clearly shows why Grier became a star . & quot ; Foxy Brown & quot ; simply distills Grier 's star qualities and uses them to their fullest potential , and by star qualities , I 'm not just referring to her ample bosom . In & quot ; Foxy Brown & quot ; Grier is an abused , violated madwoman out for revenge at all costs , she does n't just chew up the scenery , she obliterates it . But that 's exactly why we love Grier . She 's beautiful , sultry and she can kick a whole lotta ass ! As far as I 'm concerned , she IS the screen 's original action heroine and this vehicle best showcases her talents as an action star . Unlike & quot ; Coffy , & quot ; & quot ; Foxy Brown & quot ; does n't give Grier much chance to flex her acting muscles , but it features Grier down and dirty : Foxy ransacks apartments , beats up hostile lesbians , gouges eyes , burns men alive , emasculates ( literally and figuratively ) , and even pulls firearms out of her perfectly coifed afro . & quot ; Foxy Brown & quot ; is lurid , wildly sadistic , absolutely over-the-top and a cult film classic for those very reasons . & quot ; Coffy & quot ; may be the better film , but & quot ; Foxy Brown & quot ; is more enjoyable . So how does & quot ; Foxy Brown & quot ; fare on DVD ? Well , the disc is an absolute revelation . Not since the film 's theatrical debut has it looked this good . The previous full-frame transfer used for the videocassette and laserdisc was atrocious , featuring jaundiced flesh tones , excessively saturated colors , dark murky interiors , ruined compositions , and horrifically over-enhanced edges . The new , anamorphically-enhanced widescreen transfer is luminous . Compositions are correctly preserved with an aspect ratio of 1.85:1 , no more distracting headroom and a bit of picture information is added to the sides . The interiors now reveal wood paneling , earth-toned wallpaper and maroon curtains , unlike the previous transfer which rendered almost everything black or dark brown . The flesh tones are finally natural and the film 's colors are brought down to a comprehensible saturation level , but do n't worry , the 70 's fashions are still a bright kaleidoscope of tawdriness . The sharpness is pleasing ; edge-enhancement never rears its ugly head and the film 's skies are at last blue . Gone is the olive and yellow sunlight . Film grain is noticeable in some dark scenes and there are a few source defects . Considering this is a low-budget exploitation film made in 1974 , the source element is almost pristine . Compression on the disc is not so pristine , however . Some dark , shadowy areas and dissolves are frequently subject to tiling artifacts , but for a retail price of only $ 14.95 , who can complain ? Supplements include the amusing theatrical trailer ( & quot ; Foxy 's got guts : no ifs , ands , or buts ! & quot ; ) and an enlightening commentary track by director Jack Hill who repeatedly describes the toils of working with AIP ( American International Pictures ) on this film , which he has said was one of his worst film-making experiences . The monaural sound on the disc is commendable ; dialogue is always intelligible and the bass level makes Willie Hutch 's score sound just as funky as it was 27 years ago . Jack Hill created Pam Grier her own sub-genre with & quot ; Coffy & quot ; and & quot ; Foxy Brown & quot ; and when she left it after 1976 's dismal & quot ; Friday Foster , & quot ; no one took her place ... no one ever could . & quot ; Foxy Brown & quot ; is the ultimate Pam Grier action vehicle , a blaxploitation classic and a great DVD ! If you have only seen & quot ; Foxy Brown & quot ; on videocassette or laserdisc , you have n't seen & quot ; Foxy & quot ; at all .