All 3 films are pretty sitting on the edge of your seat exciting but most folk already know the story lines . The first of the 3 films , The Bourne Identity has both excellent video and very discreet channel tracking in the audio . The sound mixers did an excellent job of using all the surround channels and did not allow the soundtrack to hide the various foley effects in any of the front or rear channels . Of course , in all the excitement , your subwoofer will get a fine workout . The video transfer is quite good with no video noise , aliasing or artifacts . This movie started the whole franchise and it was a super start . My only question was how Bourne getting shot in the back brought out his amnesia in the first place . That was never really answered as amnesia would generally come about from a serious head trauma and not from 2 bullets in the back.The Bourne Supremacy , the second film of the trilogy , made far greater use of the hand held camera , and while it did n't bother me , I recall a friend , and professional photographer , mentioning that it got him seasick . The video transfer on Blu ray was excellent in all respects , but I also noticed a great deal less of directional audio use . Rather than put money into more discreet sound editing the producers boosted up the sound track which pretty much enveloped the entire sound stage , front and rear . It 's not that the soundtrack did not fit the film , it certainly does , and creates the ambience of excitement the Bourne film requires , but a greater focus on the 5.1 sound stage for foley effects would have been nice.The last of the Trilogy , the Bourne Ultimatum , completes the package with equal strength in the video transfer . I saw no weaknesses in any of the video transfers for the 3 films , but once again , in the Bourne Ultimatum , you would think that with all the excitement going on , that usage of the front sides and rear surrounds would be more prominent . I was disappointed that , like the Bourne Supremacy , they simply upped the audio levels of the soundtrack which would overshadow any foley effects . I 'm not saying there is no use of the discreets in either of the last two films , but no where as much as what could have been or as was used in the first Bourne Identity . To save $ they just boost the soundtrack level and that is a shame . During the fight scene there are things being thrown , glass breaking , and all sorts of mayhem that easily could have been steered to the left or right , front or back . Thus , on that score , I was disappointed.Never the less , this is a great collection to have and the excitement and pacing of the 3 films is just excellent . There are plenty of deleted scenes and other 'making of ' shorts as well as commentary with no wasted space for previews and ads for other movies . Well worth the cost.Hopefully , this review has been of help and , if so , please check the 'Helpful ' button so I know I am on the correct path with my reviews for you . Thanks .