Let 's face it : Even the most somber superhero franchises have a certain degree of ridiculousness to them . We are often presented with adults , usually in costumes involving capes and tights , invisible jets , superpowers , aliens , criminal masterminds , jails that can not hold prisoners and pretty useless law enforcement agencies . It 's only natural of course that somewhere along the way the potential to laugh at itself was not only realized but exploited . And , when done properly , these spoofs do n't insult superhero fans so much as they give cause to celebrate the weird and wonderfulness that make the niche so appealing and enduring.The list of successful superhero spoofs is long and ever growing with entries like `` The Greatest American Hero '' , `` The Incredibles '' , `` My Superhero Ex Girlfriend '' , `` Zoom : Academy for Superheroes '' , `` Kick Ass '' and `` Super '' to name a few . However , 1999 's film adaptation of Bob Burden 's legendary superhero squad Mystery Men from the Dark Horse comic books certainly ranks up there as one of the most solid and comedic examples of the genre has to offer.Taking place in Capital City , Mystery Men tells of a genuine crime-fighter named Captain Amazing ( Greg Kinnear ) who , in effort to stir up a little endorsement revenue , arranges for the release of super villain Casanova Frankenstein . The logic here being it 's difficult for a superhero to capture media attention chasing after petty thieves and j-walkers . Unfortunately for the Cap , it turns out Casanova Frankenstein has n't been simply busying himself with crossword puzzles while locked up and quickly enacts a plan of vengeance which results in Captain Amazing 's capture.Like most metropolises that have become dependent upon the aid of a superhero for protection , tranquility , and general peace of mind , Capital City suddenly finds itself in a world of hurt without Captain Amazing 's services . Fortunately for the ragtag group of amateur heroes that will become known as the Mystery Men , the opportunity to unite and make their presence known arrives in the process.Calling these guys second-string would be doing backup quarterbacks all over the country a disservice . Mr . Furious ( Ben Stiller ) , the Shoveler ( William H. Macy ) , Blue Raja ( Hank Azaria ) , Bowler ( Janeane Garofalo ) , Invisible Boy ( Kel Mitchell ) and the Spleen ( played flawlessly by one Pee Wee Herman , Paul Reubens ) make up the group of good guys under the tutelage of the hilariously generic-advice dispensing sage Sphinx ( Wes Studi ) .If the names alone do n't clue you in to the sheer zaniness of this Justice League-wannabe , perhaps some of the powers will . Blue Raja has mastered the art of throwing silverware , Spleen , due to a spell placed upon him some years earlier by a gypsy , has an incurable case of flatulence , and Mr. Furious- well let 's just say that sometimes life makes him grumpy . Perhaps most amusing of all would be the Shoveler 's origin story which just so happens to be that he has always been good at shoveling.On that note , one of the all-time classic scenes of the film belongs to Mr . Furious , who , thanks to a fantastically dry portrayal by Ben Stiller , hopes to prove his true furiousness in a scuffle with the villains and ends up doing little more than pounding the hood of Casanova Frankenstein 's stretch Corvette Stingray limo ( especially funny when he tries unsuccessfully to remove the hood ornament ) .Coming in at a runtime of 122-minutes , the 2004 DVD release of the film contains some surprisingly solid extra features . Among these : Spotlight on Location , Deleted Scenes , Origin of the original Mystery Men comic book characters , Universal Soundtrack Presentation & Music Highlights & Universal Showcase , & a host of DVD-ROM Features.Of particular note , the movie itself is based loosely on an independent comic book series called Flaming Carrot Comics by Bob Burden , though some characters were greatly changed from the original material . Living up to the title , the Flaming Carrot was actually a member of the team and because the team in the comics had an unusually high casualty rate , nearly all of the heroes that appear in the film ( there is one scene where local heroes are interviewed for a spot on the squad ) were made official members at one point or another.First ( and apparently last ) time film director Kinka Usher confesses to have come into the project with a background in television commercials and ( fortunately ) the film reveals no hint of the fast , choppy cuts famous in TV advertising back in the late 1990s . Pacing , however , is certainly not one of Usher 's strong points ; a fact reveled here by a 122-minute runtime that somehow manages to completely avoid back-story or character development of any kind . Granted , many of the characters appearing here would only lose cache were we to delve too deep into their past ( like Blue Raja for example , who lives at home with his mom , wears a blue bathrobe for his costume and throws silverware ) .The film is n't a spoof so much as it is a satirical look at the entire superhero genre . As such it relies more on sociological gags and sublime commentary than it does specific jokes ; this is not a bad thing as the world can really do without another film poking fun of Superman directly . Of course the downside to this is that a certain degree of comic book geekdom is expected out of its viewers . At the very least , some degree of the popular trends that have adorned the pages of comic books for decades is required to appreciate the multitude of gags and quotes scattered about in Mystery Men 's prose.While it would be a stretch to go as far as to say this is a universally appealing film , the fact of the matter is that it appears that most view it as a love it or hate it affair . In defense of the former , and especially thanks to Stiller 's character , there is undeniable charm to this film that many of the superhero spoofs mentioned above fail to capture despite advances in computer generated imagery.On the other hand , it is easy to understand why some could lean toward the latter . The humor is by no means consistent throughout and some moments of the film are n't quite discernable between stabs at humor or attempts at seriousness . The end of the film in particular starts to shake the parody feel altogether in favor of a bit of a clich & eacute ; Hollywood-inspired finale.However , the sublime elements of the characters especially , make it a worthy time-investment . Fans of superhero entertainment in any capacity should definitely consider giving it a go , if even only as a rental , for the few genuinely humorous moments along the way . After all , the ridiculousness of superheroism works best when celebrated and Mystery Men is nothing if not a celebration of the preposterous .