I never got a chance to go see this movie when it hit the theaters . I rented it not knowing what to expect . After watching it on DVD , I can say that I would not have minded paying the price of the movie ticket to see this movie . It 's not all that glamorous , but what it is is a nice feel-good , respectable movie . Gabrielle Union does a nice job playing a rude , obnoxious , man-hating sister by the name of Eva . At times she takes it over the top , but that 's acting and that 's what she gets paid to do . Eva is bent on taking care of her little sister 's who all lean to her for advice instead of their men . The sister 's love Eva and listen to her as if her word were the gospel . The men , on the other hand , hate her guts and want nothing more than to see her leave town . She often interferes with her sisters ' relationships and makes it a point to drive her sisters ' men crazy . So , in order to bring proper order to their respected relationships the men plot to get Eva out of their lives . Thus the need for Ray ( LL Cool J ) . Ray is a smooth-talking playa with serious game . The men talk Ray into dating Eva to get her out of their lives . Ray agrees and thus the story begans with two people falling in love with each other that were n't supposed to fall in love . That 's when things get messy for Ray and Eva . Some parts of the movie were a little outrageous and the ending was not the best , but all in all it was still a pretty good movie . I 've read some of the reviews on this movie and other movies as well . My thing is that if you want real life situations , go watch a drama or a real life story . This is comedy ... comedy 's not supposed to be real . It 's really an escape from reality . Do n't we all need that right about now ? Anyway , besides the ending , this movie was well done with the supporting actors doing a great job of playing out their respected roles . Furthermore , the women in this movie are pretty fine . Also , LL did a nice job playing Ray . I have a lot of respect for him as an actor . He did n't over play his part , but he made it believable . All in all , I give this movie a B+ . The ending was a little cliche .