This is the romantic comedy by which all other romantic comedies are now judged . Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan have undeniable chemistry and top notch timing . And surprisingly so do Bruno Kirby and Carrie Fisher who really have great moments that add fun to the film . This movie knows no one knows how to present Manhattan better than Woody Allen and heavily borrows from his traditions . Including the choice of pop romantic standards . As in Annie Hall , & quot ; It Had to be You & quot ; is the musical centerpiece for an inevitable coupling . The dialog is snappy and rhythmic with an ear for New York sensibility . And also knows how to show off New Yorks favorite trendy hangouts at their very best . Even Billy Crystal is a little nebbish . Still this film is an original and its style has been mimicked countless times by other films in hopes of capturing a little of its magic . Still none quite tops this . The cherry on the cake was the wonderful choice to interupt passing seasons of Harry and Sally 's relationship with old couple telling stories of their first meeting . The way they talk over and take over each others stories is charming and authentic and forces smiles of recognition . When Harry Met Sally is a lighthearted and very very funny film that never gets tiresome no matter how many times it is viewed . It is a classic . The DVD contains some 7 minutes of additional deleted footage . In this case it is pretty apparent why it was deleted . Watch at your own risk . Rob Reiner 's audio commentary seems to have been delivered at gunpoint . Do n't look for a lot of joyful anecdotes or insights into where he came up with all these great ideas . The commentary track is pretty slow paced and dry . The & quot ; Making of & quot ; documentary is quite a bit more fun and insightful so the extras are not a total wash . The sound and image quality are both bright and lush so the most important part of the disc , the film , is as enjoyable as it can possibly be . When Harry Met Sally has a lot of fun with men and women trying to figure each other out and makes us laugh a lot and even cry just a little in the process .