I want to start off by saying that this is the best Blu Ray release I have purchased to date . The packaging is wonderful with it 's hardcover `` keepsake '' aesthetic , and the additional bonus features alone make it worth the meager asking price . Seeing actual footage of Linda Blair ( in full makeup no less ) on the set is priceless and definitely trumps any extras from the previous releases.On to the important stuff ... .THE MOVIE.I have to say that this has become my favorite film of all time . I am by no means a horror buff . I have a few faves of the genre..but I opt more for the comedic and/or fantastical . I like to either be uplifted with laughter , or taken away from reality entirely.You ask `` Then why on EARTH would you consider The Exorcist your favorite movie ? ? '' .Simple . It is a modern parable and is one of those rare films that truly produces it 's intended effect in every frame.Labeling `` The Exorcist '' as a horror film is a bit short-sighted . It 's a spiritual drama , psychological thriller , and supernatural tale ... all rolled into one.37 years later , it still holds it 's own and is as relevant today as it was then . The difference here is that we now live in a society that is , as Blatty states in the Fear Of God documentary `` utterly jaded and depraved '' . Nothing here seems to shock and 14 year olds now see this film as `` laughable '' . It 's a shame , because there is a great deal more than pea soup and spinning heads here . It 's really all about the terror of the unknown ... the fear and trepidation involved in all things metaphysical and spiritual . It 's about the mystery of faith and it 's capacity to ultimately triumph.The sights , the sounds , and the story ... all mesh here . It 's incredibly well written by Blatty . Friedkin 's sense of documentary-like realism serves the plot well . The acting is top notch by a cast that could not have been more perfect . Dick Smith 's makeup is ground breaking , not only with Linda Blair , but with Max Von Sydow who was in his mid-to-late forties at the time . Owen Roizman 's use of varying light textures and , of course , his masterful and iconic shot of Merrin 's arrival , is noteworthy as well.I was fortunate enough to see the Fathom screening on Sept. 30th and , while seeing this film on a big screen with digital sound was fantastic , I still have to say it plays better and provides more unnerving sensations when watching at home ... in the dark . That is the truly frightening angle within this film ... it reminds us that no matter how safe we think we are ( even in our own home with all the lights on ) , there is nothing that true evil will not do and nowhere it wo n't go to manifest itself .