+++++This movie is based on the musical play `` Cabaret '' ( also called `` Goodbye Berlin '' ) . The music and lyrics are by the great John Kander and Fred Ebb respectively . It was directed by , and the dance & musical numbers were staged by , the late , great Bob Fosse.Personally , I 'm not much for musicals but this movie is much more than a terrific musical . Do n't get the idea that there 's just singing and dancing . There 's also a good story that delves into the corruption , decadence , and false dreams of Berlin in the early 1930s when Hitler was coming to power.The story follows the life of Sally Bowles ( Liza Minnelli ) during this turbulent time . She is the so-called star of the Kit Kat nightclub that has an impish master of ceremonies ( Joel Grey ) . Writer Brian Roberts ( Michael York ) intrudes in Sally 's world , hoping to take the vacant room opposite hers . He soon learns that she is a ball of fire and energy.Sally tells us of her dream : '' I 'm going to be a great film star . That is , if booze and sex do n't get me first . `` The movie alternates between the real , difficult life outside the Kit Kat nightclub and the carefree life inside it where those who attend can forget their troubles and the troubled times.The song and dance routines inside the Kit Kat Klub provide a sharp counterpoint to the real-life drama on the outside . Five songs from the original Broadway production did not make it into the movie as `` performed '' songs , but appear as background music.The music , costumes , choreography , and acting are all exquisite . Especially impressive is the performance of Minnelli , awesome on the stage and equally convincing off it . Matching her is the fascinating performance of Grey as the Master of Ceremonies who injects humor and pathos as well as effervescence and solidity into the proceedings.The last song and dance scene performed by Minnelli is historic and unforgettable ! This movie won eight Academy Awards including best actress ( Minnelli ) , best supporting actor ( Grey ) , and best director ( Fosse ) .Finally , the DVD itself ( the one released in 2003 ) is perfect in picture and sound quality . It has a long list of interesting extras.In conclusion , I would recommend that you go to this cabaret ( old chum ) . You 'll never want to leave ! ! ( 1972 ; 2 hrs ; wide screen ; 32 scenes ) +++++