This musical still delights and charms us ... more than 40 years after it was made . It earns our applause the old fashion way - with good solid song and dance entertainment.Robert Preston shines as Professor Harold Hill ... an unscrupulous con man who sets out to deceive the entire population ( about 2,400 ) of River City , Iowa . He charms his way into their hearts ( and pocketbooks ) and manages to stay one step ahead of the authorities.Along the way , he ( Prof. Hill ) touches the lives of a spinster-to-be ( Shirley Jones as Marian the Librarian ) and her extremely shy little brother Winthrop ( played by a very young and adorable Ronnie Howard ) and , to his surprise , he finds himself in the unfamiliar territory of a good-doer . His planned escape thereby stalled , he is caught , and must , um , face the music.Along the way we are given quite a few memorable and fun songs and some delightful dance routines . The movie makers showed some pluck ... using some imagination and taking some chances ... and gave us a lot of entertainment . My favorite spots are the opening train sequence and the very excellent dance ( and song ) scene inside the library.The River City townsfolk are made out to be stubborn and narrow minded ... but in fact they are each comedy producers . Virtually every adult character in the movie delivers his or her share of the workload ... and adds humor to the overall fun of the picture . Paul Ford , as the befuddled Mayor George Shinn , is particularly good ... and Hermione Gingold , who plays his wife Eulalie , is funny also ( though in a different way ) .Shirley Jones is pretty good here . She 's always been a great singer , but she does some effective acting and fancy footwork here as well . Pert Kelton , as her Irish-brogued mother , is a delight . But the show pretty much belongs to Robert Preston . A most able entertainer , he is light on his feet , and equally as nimble ( and agile ) while handling his lines . He 's not a great singer ... he speaks most of the lyrics to his songs ... but they ( the songs ) work , and they work well.I had heard that , in the pre-production phase of making the movie , they wanted to replace Robert Preston ( the star of the stage version of `` The Music Man '' ) with someone else . Meredith Willson , the writer of the original story , gave them an ultimatum ... either Robert Preston stays or ... no movie . And , watching him ( Preston ) perform here , it 's easy to understand that feeling . He is a delight .