Almost nine years after have watched the movie for the first time and nearly 34 years since the events it inspired took place , the movie `` Apollo 13 '' seems even more captivating . The story of Apollo 13 , for any who have followed the space program and especially for those who witnessed it , is as gripping a story as has ever been told throughout American history . It is fraught with drama , intrigue , plot twists , and thrilling danger . What 's more , it all really happened ! In April of 1970 , the American public was already viewing the amazing accomplishment of landing on the Moon as pass & eacute ; and could not have cared less about the Apollo 13 mission . Interest was so apathetic that the astronaut broadcast as the ship was about to enter lunar orbit was not even carried on television . The fickle public certainly had its interest piqued when , not long after the unwatched broadcast , a simple house-cleaning maneuver ( stirring the oxygen tanks ) exposed a deadly flaw that led to a tremendous explosion . That explosion sent Apollo 13 flying out of control , ended any hopes of landing on the Moon , and left fate of the three astronauts ( Commander Jim Lovell , LM pilot Fred Haise , and Command Module pilot Jack Swigert ) very much in doubt . The heroic efforts put forth by the members of Mission Control , as well as the astronauts themselves , the bring Apollo 13 safely back to Earth is one of the greatest stories ever told.Acclaimed director , Ron Howard , saw this and , inspired by Lovell 's own personal account of that mission crafted one of the truly great historical films to ever hit the screen . `` Apollo 13 '' is a true cinematic achievement . It re-ignites the imagination and wonder that the space program held in the 1960 's and early 1970 's . Using cutting-edge special effects in service of the story ( as opposed to in place of it ) , Howard is able to give audiences a true up close view of the entire Apollo mission . Using archive footage to craft the special effects scenes , the director is able to make launch seem lifelike , as if the viewer is standing atop the tower watching the rocket about to lift off . The scenes in space are well crafted and extraordinarily realistic . When the astronauts are forced to shutdown much of the lunar module , and all of the command module , to conserve power , the abject cold and forlornness that these men were forced to endure is felt by the audience . The true mark of this film 's greatness is found in the fact that , even though we know from history that the men of Apollo 13 survived , the final moments during re-entry , as played out in the movie , are still incredibly gripping and tense . Then , the emotional release that comes knowing they made it is so overwhelming that even the most cynical , hard-hearted viewer will get choked with emotion.The storytelling and effects of `` Apollo 13 '' are great , but the film would likely have still fallen short if not for the tremendous cast hired to perform these roles . Tom Hanks is solid as the unflappable Jim Lovell , Bill Paxton ( who seems to always find a way into every blockbuster ) is good as the trusted , but untested rookie Fred Haise , and Kevin Bacon gives an accurate portrayal of last minute replacement Jack Swigert . Gary Sinise plays Ken Mattingly , the astronaut Swigert replaced due to fears of a measles infection , with appropriate melancholy . The other truly standout performance is turned in by Ed Harris , who plays the no-nonsense rock of a flight director , Gene Kranz . Harris truly deserved his Oscar nomination for this performance and there is certainly a strong argument to be made for him to have won the award over eventually Supporting Actor winner , Kevin Spacey . `` Apollo 13 '' , itself , was a strong contender for Best Picture honors , only losing out to the worthy `` Braveheart '' . The one baffling question is why Ron Howard was omitted from the Best Director nominations ( he would have to wait 7 more years before receiving his due for `` A Beautiful Mind '' ) . `` Apollo 13 '' is not only a great thriller ; it is also a telling history lesson . It enables us to remember those wondrous days of the quest to reach the Moon , as well as the drama of that imperiled flight . These days , it is disheartening to realize how the space program has stagnated since those heady days . `` Apollo 13 '' proves , beyond a doubt , that we still have the men with the will , knowledge , and courage to take this space exploration to places beyond imagination .