Action movies remind me of the true beauty of motion pictures , how a story can be told through visual arrangement and motion across the frame , instead of dead dialog and two motionless actors conversing . Those movies are like filmed plays , while others draw from their silent black & amp ; white roots , telling stories without words . Road Warrior contains one of the finest examples of this - such a small moment , a minor obstacle overcome , yet which dances boldly across the screen like a painter . Here is the magic , shot by shot . Halfway through the final chase sequence , a red hotrod approaches Max 's big rig truck from behind with intention to kill him . In a shot that has been copied many times , Max emerges from the cab and thrusts his shotgun into the camera - forced perspective , moving right then left , back to front in a zig-zag across the screen . Bad guy 's head explodes like a firecracker , and we are treated to a scream of delight from Max 's wild wolf-boy friend - an animalistic reaction to violence ironically given from a child raised by animals.Now we have a series of jump cuts which tell the little story of the red car losing control and hitting other bad guy vehicles . That little story is closed by the famous and almost peaceful shot of one man flipping head over heels in a horizontal fall , again in forced perspective flying at the camera . Now another series of jump cuts as we jump back to the red hotrod and it 's fight to stay out from under Max 's huge wheels . In a beautiful play of movement , the car dances in front of Max 's truck , darting back and forth in front of Max and our screens like a dangling carrot , until we have a third masterful forced-perspective shot : the camera approaches the grill of the truck , then moves up and into the cab at Max , when Max finally ends this car 's misery by nailing it in an explosion of gasoline and metal bits . Such sick , twisted beauty ... Did you know that George Miller , the director of Road Warrior , also directed Babe ?