On my short list of must-see film titles for 2011 , Jose Padilha 's `` Elite Squad : The Enemy Within '' was certainly at the top of the roster . I first became aware of Padilha with the 2002 documentary feature `` Bus 174 , '' an unforgettable true life story of a bus hijacking that played out very publicly in the Brazilian media . It was a harrowing picture that had as much to say about contemporary journalism , rampant crime , local corruption , political maneuvering , and the state of the police as it did about the actual event it portrayed . I think that it is fair to say that some of these same themes have remained a constant in all of the writer/director 's future film endeavors as well . That said , I do want to point out that `` Elite Squad : The Enemy Within '' is actually a sequel to the 2007 project entitled ( you guessed it ) `` Elite Squad . '' While the two films are certainly better served as companion pieces , this does have a self contained story that can be enjoyed on its own merits . If you choose to see this without having seen the first picture , you might miss out on some of the character back story -- but the screenplay brings you up to speed rather quickly and efficiently.The movie centers around the returning character of Captain Nascimento , effectively played by Wagner Moura . Moura is in charge of a special crime unit and when a prison riot goes awry , the squad 's tactics and decisions are called into question by human rights activists ( led spectacularly by his ex-wife 's new husband ) . Public opinion , however , sides with the fast acting and uncompromising Moura and thrusts him into a position of even more power . Making it a mission to eliminate Rio 's rampant drug crisis , he targets the lower class slums where the problem has its strongest foothold . But in eliminating the obvious enemy , he may make way for a more unexpected nemesis . As dirty cops and unscrupulous politicians jockey for new power , Moura starts to realize that he has cut off the head of one monster to see another ( more nefarious ) one take its place . Unable to trust those in power , he sees new allies in the media and the activists that had once been critical of Moura 's methods . The turn-around is compelling and believable and undeniably frightening.The film is shot in a gritty documentary style that makes the unpleasantness all the more tangible . While perhaps the narrative relies a little too heavily on voice-over analysis , it does keep Moura 's viewpoint in perspective as the large story leaves him on the sidelines for large chunks of the action . In essence , this is a morality play disguised as a ruthless crime saga -- but in that vein , it is surprisingly understated . The character shifts are subtle and the action is unrelentingly real . It 's hard to imagine that the film can have a happy or satisfying conclusion , but what we 're left with certainly seems appropriate even if it does n't wrap everything up in a neat little bow . In the end , the characters distinguish this piece ( Moura is fantastic ) that has universal topicality in its themes of corruption and those who would combat it . `` Elite Squad : The Enemy Within '' is a rare picture that will make you think while it entertains . About 4 1/2 stars . KGHarris , 2/12 .