* '' The Defiant Ones '' is one of those rare films which after having been seen only once had the ability to stick with me for an entire lifetime ! ( Other such gems having had a similar effect on me include Chaplin 's first 'talkie , ' `` The Great Dictator , '' the original `` Night of the Living Dead , '' the cheesy and awful but fun sci-fi cult flick `` Laserblast , '' and Orson Welles ' `` Citizen Kane . '' ) I 've just had the opportunity to purchase the DVD and view this film for only the second time , and it was every bit as good and intense as I remember from that first time ! ''The Defiant Ones '' teams up the legendary Tony Curtis and the equally legendary and talented Sidney Poitier as convicted felons John `` Joker '' Jackson and Noah Cullen who , as a result of a racially sparked physical scuffle between the two of them , partly contribute to the road accident their transport vehicle becomes involved in . The resulting crash gives these two chained together prisoners an opportunity to escape on foot . But this is pre-1960s southern USA , so when the arriving law officers responsible for tracking the prisoners down learn that the two chained together escaped cons are of different racial backgrounds they become somewhat lax in their pursuit , erroneously assuming that the two escapees would likely kill each other out of racial hatred before they 'd even get five miles . Forced to cooperate despite the racial tensions between them , Joker and Noah do not take their predicament lightly and are constantly on the move to stay as far ahead of their pursuers as possible . In the days that follow both men form something of an uneasy camaraderie , and the conversations they strike up between themselves actually seem to help smooth over some of those racial tensions they exhibit toward each other , to where each man gains a certain amount of respect for the other . Joker is also made to confront some unpleasant realities , such as being forced to admit in his heart that Noah is the more rational of the two and , especially , having to come to terms with the fact that his white skin is no safety net when he is an escaped criminal on the run . There is also a 'human interest ' story in the subplot of the film , some of it just somewhat ahead of its time : The County Sheriff becomes the catalyst which keeps the chase from becoming a reckless and disorderly `` Good Ol ' Boy '' guns , dawgs & testosterone party , and one of the townspeople , portrayed by the legendary Lon Chaney Jr. , keeps a town 's citizenry from becoming an emotionally irrational lynch mob . The cinematography is excellent for a movie of its time , although some of the sets could have been better constructed and arranged ( for example , there 's one set where the city lights of Los Angeles shine in the background beyond the studio lot ) . It is also nice to hear actors talking with southern accents that do n't sound like `` Foghorn Leghorn '' rejects . To even consider `` remaking '' this classic film would not only be a terrible mistake , but it would also be a virtual impossibility ... so hopefully no one in Hollyweird , or anywhere else for that matter , would ever think of doing such a thing , and thus let this great piece of movie making history stand on its own and to continue to stand the test of time . * * *