`` Lost Highway '' is not as linear , and thus satisfying to our narrative desire , as `` Mulholland Drive '' because it indeed seems to try too hard to be weird . But David Lynch is one of the only directors who understands how strangely dreamlike cinema itself can be . Like Hitchcock , he exploits this situation for all its worth , but in the manner of the classic surrealists , and I think this movie can be best experienced in the setting of an actual theater.This film 's terrain is even more deeply subconscious than `` Mulholland Drive '' , because its ultimate subject seems to be the act of watching a narrative movie itself , as channeled through a paragon of truth in our society : Crime scene photos . This is what makes it interesting . It 's so open-ended , though , that it allows every viewer their own personal interpretation , because the `` surface plot '' is mixed up with its own interpretative clues ... My take is that Fred Madison believes he was convicted of murdering his wife based on the images contained in the last videotape which is delivered to he and Renee ( Patricia Arquette ) ; during the first act , the most crucial line is his declaration that he does n't like cameras because he prefers to remember things his own way -- '' not necessarily the way they happened . '' This entire first section of the film is the way Fred remembers his life before being incarcerated , and takes place in the space of a second -- after he is punched in the face by the arresting police officer . Believing in the mysterious tapes which preceded the murder is his way of trying to convince himself that he did n't do it -- that the Mystery Man ( Robert Blake as wifekiller -- ironic , eh ? ) actually did.The second part , less effective due to its lighter tone , is Madison 's way of escaping the reality of the electric chair . The light above his cell flickers and buzzes as presumably someone is being executed , which triggers his fantasy of escaping by physically becoming another person . Yet even in the life of this younger man , Renee returns ( as a double ... ? ) and he is free to begin a life with her without the memory of his marriage , but learns the sordid truth about her life ... The Mystery Man again shows up , this time helping him commit conscious murder of her former pimp -- and allowing it to be videotaped to convince himself that this murder ( which Fred may have committed before the movie begins ) was right . But who the hell knows ... The plot ? I mapped this film out after I saw it the first time , and there are too many doubles of whose nature we as viewers can not trust as either physical reality or mental projection . Each interpretation points at the other -- like the Moebius strip Lynch claims the film embodies . It 's more like a puzzle structured around themes , mostly a subtext involving photography -- the photo of the twins , the porn movies , the creepy videotapes which show up on their doorstep like evil calling cards . Be sure to get a letterboxed version of this film ; Lynch 's visual compositions are based upon horizontal angles all throughout , and there are many extreme close-ups in which the tops of heads are truncated ( for some malevolent intent , I 'm sure ) . The cinematography is great , and the sound track ( not the music , but the atmospherics which Lynch always meticulously makes himself ) is as important as the images , just as in `` Eraserhead . `` And after watching a particular scene in this film , you 'll be very careful around glass tables with sharp edges for the rest of your life ...