If anyone doubts the temporal quality of fame , just think of Douglas Fairbanks to bring the point home . In his day , Douglas Fairbanks ' fame was unprecedented . He and his wife , Mary Pickford , were thought of as America 's royal family . Today , his marvelous action films are not watched save by film enthusiasts , and his face and name are lost to the youngest generation ( if Jay Leno 's `` man on the street '' interviews are any indication , our youngest Americans seem proud not to know the name of the Vice President , much less a silent screen actor like Fairbanks ) .That Douglas Fairbanks should fade from memory is tremendously sad . `` The Mark of Zorro '' is a good example of the kind of film Fairbanks specialized in toward the end of the silent era , and were hugely popular because of the dynamic presence of its star.There really has been nothing to compare with Fairbanks since his departure from films . No action star since can come close to his grace and power in an action film . If you doubt me , buy this DVD and see for yourself . Watch Fairbanks leap over tables , vault over chest-high walls to mount a horse , leap from a table top to a cornice near a ceiling , etc . And it was not just that he was able to do these feats , it is that he did them effortlessly . The sheer grace of the man was truly thrilling . He never seemed to strain for anything . I realized this while watching the Mark of Zorro during one scene when Fairbanks swings a leg up and dismounts a running horse , in full gallop , to land on his feet as easily as though he were stepping off the ladder . He made it look so easy , I went back and watched the scene again to make sure I had seen what I thought I saw . Yep , he had done it - smooth as silk.Then there is his acting . In this film , Fairbanks plays a duel role : Don Diego , a foppish young noble , and his masked counterpart , Zorro . His portrayal of Don Diego is subtle and effective . His body seems shapeless and soft . His manner is distracted and indecisive and vaguely lost . He detests swordplay and is constantly wiping his face due to his great `` fatigue . '' When his love interest declares `` He is not a man - he is a fish ! '' she hits the nail on the head . Yet when he dons the mask , his body and manner are reborn . His body looks lithe and full of movement , and his smile , that tremendous , beaming smile that radiated pure happiness , is almost as devastating as his blade.Finally , there is the art design and sets of this film . Fairbanks loved these period pieces , and he spared no expense on research and detail . His care , financial investment , and dedication to craft really show . Everything has a beautiful , `` deep '' feel.As a side note , this review is based on the Kino DVD release of this film , and as with all the Kino releases , this edition looks simply great . God Bless Kino for being one of the best companies preserving and marketing silent films.If you have bothered to read this review , please buy this film . If you do , Douglas Fairbanks will be popular and famous again , at least in your heart.-Mykal Banta