Toilet training is part of the parenting process and while it usually begins in the toddler years , it can take longer with some children than others . Potty Power attempts to speed up the process by presenting a DVD that encourages kids to use the potty and give up their diapers or pull- ups for good . It accomplishes it goal through its potty talk , songs , skit , and upbeat attitude about using the potty . Jessica , the Potty Power narrator , is encouraging and extremely perky . She talks about pee and poop , slang terms for bodily functions , and more while managing to keep a smile on her face throughout . She really wants children to learn to use the potty , and her enthusiasm , hopefully , will carry through to the children who watch the DVD.This DVD certainly has its usefulness and I know many people who have had great success showing this training session to their young toddlers . But it does get a little corny and many adults will roll their eyes as they listen to the dialogue and the songs . Songs like I 'm Proud to Wear my Underwear , Wipe Your Bottom and others are certainly catchy to young children , but even some youngsters will find the material too silly to be true . One of my toddlers is already toilet trained and she laughs aloud when she watches this DVD , due to its silly and often corny style.Silliness aside , what matters most is the effectiveness of the DVD and from my experience , Potty Power has made a difference . My youngest one likes to repeat the lines she has heard from this DVD and she likes to sing along to the tunes . She has been going on her own , to the potty , so the DVD does seem to be having a positive effect , even if it does get annoying at times.Potty Power , in spite of its silliness , is an effective means to wean children off their diapers and pull- ups . If you can get past the goofiness of the whole experience , the excessive perkiness of the narrator , and the annoying skit at the end , Potty Power seems to have something going for it . Children will remember the tunes and message , making this DVD a good toilet- training supplement .