This fun and funny crime caper has a great cast and lots of south-of-the-border flavor that makes it an entertaining 88 minutes at the movies . William A. Seiter 's Borderline is a nifty little film that has more in common with The Big Steal than the noir film it is often advertised as . It is a blend of humor , crime and fun that grows on you more and more until its snappy ending.It seems both the L.A.P.D . and United States Treasury Customs wants to stop a dope smuggling ring bringing narcotics across the border from Mexico . Claire Trevor is the enthusiastic if green L.A. cop Madeline Haley , a former O.S.S . agent who talks her way into the assignment of going down south in an attempt to get information on the nasty middleman Pete Ritche , hoping it will lead them to Mr. Big . TV 's Perry Mason , Raymond Burr , is the heavy in the white suit , Ritche , and plays the role with menace.Madeline sort of stumbles into Ritchie but before she can find anything out , Johnny Mackland , an unknown player working for the L.A. end of the connection , hijacks Ritchie 's gold so he can make a deal for the next shipment . He ends up taking Madeline with him after the guns are drawn and the chase is on.The chase across Mexico , as they try to avoid Ritchie and elude the cops is a lot of fun . Madeline and Johnny start telling each other tall tales and warming up to each other along the way . When Johnny 's pal Miguel gets shot they have a body on their hands to deal with , complicating the chase even more . Fred MacMurray is good as Johnny , the cop who does n't know Madeline is a cop , who does n't know he 's a cop ! Sort of a fun pulp film with more flavor than a habanero pepper , Trevor gives a cute performance as she begins to like Johnny , even getting a bit jealous of the oh so friendly young and pretty daughter of a not too smart Mexican cop . He unknowingly helps them garner a plane to Encinada for the big deal . As the two near the border , each regrets having to turn the other one in because they 've fallen for each other.Once they get straightened out on just who works for who , a rousing shoot-out with Ritchie and his gang climaxes a great ending to this very fun to watch film . A film that 's meant as entertainment , it does n't take itself too seriously , and neither should you . Fans of genre films like this will enjoy going south of the border with this one .