This movie almost remind me of the TV sitcom Alice : set in a small , out-of-the-way diner run by a cranky head cook with a heart of gold , and staffed by a trio of waitresses , the brash Blondie Southern one , the child-like and naive one , and the level-headed single mom ( or mom-to-be , in this case ) , along with the typical assortment of wacky and colorful customers . Writer/director Adrienne Shelly manages to take this template and make something wonderful from it , however . Far from being a mere remake of Alice , Waitress is a well-conceived and well-executed exploration of one woman 's fight to come into her own and realize her dreams , despite the bad choices and wrong decisions she 's made along the way that weigh her down.What truly sets this movie apart from most other big-screen fare is the script . The dialogue , written by Adrienne Shelly - who also directed and co-stars as Dawn , the mousy waitress who eventually finds true love - sparkles with wit , charm and humor . It 's fast and it 's funny , but it always feels totally natural , due in no small part , of course , to the talents of the actors and actresses charged with delivering it . Unlike the writing in , say , Gilmore Girls , widely praised for it 's unique character , the dialogue in Waitress never seems forced or unnatural . It 's brilliant without being obtrusive.My only downsize to this film is the fact that the `` men are dogs '' message is a little heavy-handed . Without exception , all the male characters in Waitress are presented as either mean , like Earl ( Jeremy Sisto ) , unprincipled , like Dr. Pomatter ( Nathan Fillion ) , or just plain weird , like Ogie ( Eddie Jemison 's ) . Even Joe ( Andy Griffith ) , who turns out to be truly kind and caring , is shown throughout most of the film to be abrasive and demanding , to the point that long-suffering Jenna is the only person who can deal with him and is truly his only friend . This is obviously a film made by a woman , primarily for a female audience , but one ca n't help but think that if a man made a film in which all the female characters were nothing but gold-digging , abusive , sluts , there would be a serious , if well-deserved , backlash.Waitress is a good movie that is well worth seeing . It 's tragic that Shelly , who was brutally murdered in November 2006 , wo n't be making any further films , as this movie will no doubt bring awareness of the writer/director 's impressive talents to a much wider audience than ever before . Fortunately , Waitress is a fitting memorial by which to be remembered .