Paul Verhoeven and Joe Eszterhas open their film with the ultimate oxymoron of love and death : the moment of orgasm coincides with the moment of greatest agony and death . Never before has a film character been killed in the throes of orgasm . Never before has such a wildly creative and controversial opening polarized audience opinion from scene one . Never before has orgasm on film achieved such a scary , cynical , darkly humorous edge with each counter-penetration of the murder weapon . The very concept of doing away with a victim in this way in the first minutes of the film demonstrates the creators ' genius -- and their `` poor '' taste.But this is only the beginning of a delightfully ironic , even amusing , dance between life and death that forms the twists and turns of Basic Instinct.Aside from analyzing a film from the infantile and simple-minded level of sex and violence , a great film achieves emotional intensity also with it 's carefully photographed and edited `` looks '' , scenes in which the characters glance at each other in fits of non-verbal communication - and Basic Instinct scores 200 percent in this department . Achieved by Verhoeven , cinematographer Jan De Bont , and the cast itself , the `` looks '' achieve a particularly fine edge when Curran and Gus first encounter Roxy in the `` his and hers Picassos '' scene in the foyer , and then later Verhoeven and cast up the ante again in the oceanside scene on the deck in which Curran , Gus , and Trammell first encounter each other . The cutting and film score in this area are so beautiful it hurts . This is surely Jerry Goldsmith 's finest score , whose power throughout the production is inestimable.Non-verbal looks are key , and looks mixed with Joe Eszterhas ' now-famous dialogue make Basic Instinct a film so coherent and so vital , so crackling with delicious character friction , that Basic Instinct is absolutely perfect - at least up until the violent sex scene between Curran and his psychotherapist , which I thought was unnecessary , but which adds a needed touch of lunacy to Curran 's and Garner 's relationship . The fact that this relationship is openly discussed in the department provides the final touch of contradiction and astringency.A great film stimulates all parts of the mind simultaneously , from the most intellectual to the most primal , and Basic Instinct covers the entire spectrum , providing doses of gore , emotionally satisfying character interaction , and intellectually stimulating plot.Basic Instinct is chock full of classic and memorable scenes , but most of the sex and violence scenes are definitely off the list . Verhoeven has to do it tastefully and artfully , of course . No missteps here . But who cares how well they can make love or stab each other ? It 's the stuff in between the violence , the fantastic interactions and pithy dialogue of one of the best film casts ever assembled , that makes Basic Instinct so great . Particularly notable and satisfying is the scene with Dr. Lamott , Dr. Garner and the entire police staff , which hones in on the ambiguity and insanity of the film 's basic themes , with brilliant support again from Goldsmith 's underscore.Basic Instinct is the peak of Michael Douglas ' career - and Sharon Stone 's , for that matter . Aside from Douglas ' artfully chiseled expressions , let 's not forget that fabulous voice . Douglas is simply incredible , and I have never enjoyed so much seeing a lead character attacked by everyone else in the cast , especially his own people.Note a particularly underrated performance by Denis Arndt as Lieutenant Walker , Curran 's immediate supervisor , who provides a deliciously acrid and sardonic non-supportiveness for Curran 's ongoing investigation.If characters like Curran and Walker irritate , then Stone as Trammell is the ultimate lubricant , nothing sticks to her , she can easily wriggle out of any situation . Basic Instinct dares to portray an invincible murderer with no guilt , no weaknesses , who as antagonist overcomes Curran by seduction.I would like to finally touch upon Jan De Bont 's gorgeous , smooth camera moves , which used in conjunction with long , unbroken , multi-character dialogue shots loaded with camera movement , elevate the European style and make this one of the most visually pleasurable films to watch ever made , just in terms of pure camera movement . The interplay of camera and actors is electrifying in it 's vitality . I really enjoyed verhoeven 's and De Bont 's commentary track on the Blu Ray.In it 's craft alone , Basic Instinct goes far beyond the average thriller to become the ultimate modern whodunit against which all others must be measured . This film will far outlast it 's critics - Verhoeven 's best film by far .