When Conan the Barbarian came out on video in 1981 I was one of the first to get it . The film has not lost the impact it had on me then as a 20 year old , and stands way out ahead of all those pitiable sword and sorcery films that came in its wake , including the appalling sequel Conan the Destroyer.Why do I hold this so high in my esteem ? Certainly not in the quality of acting ; when you have two body builders , a surfer , a sports star and a dancer as five of the main actors in this film , then you 're not going to get class acting - but there again this type of film does n't need it . But having said that they did a fairly good job when the script required some emotion to be put in it . Bereavement , indecision , loyalty , friendship . It was all there . And revenge.Revenge in fact is the thread that holds the story together . For that the co-writers John Milius ( the director ) and Oliver Stone must be applauded , for not only daring to depart from the path of the Robert E. Howard pulp books that gave the world Conan , but also to give us a coherent , tidy and enjoyable script that does n't insult the intelligence ( unlike the sequel ) . We have strong characters who you can sympathise with and bad guys you readily want to get their just deserts . Arnold Schwarzenegger in his film debut is perfect for the role , as is James Earl Jones as the main antagonist , the thoroughly evil Thulsa Doom who is so gripped with power he readily encourages a faithful follower to commit suicide just to prove a point to Conan.And running along with the story throughout is a top quality score written by Basil Polidouris . From the moment the opening credits begin , there is a deep , throbbing percussive sound that can take the viewer to another time and place , and make them believe this is the music of this time . Mako 's voiceover as the story is introduced is unforgettable and I recall when I first heard it it made my jaw drop . BANG ! In came the theme tune . Gutsy , hard and a delight.For me though , the one outstanding memory is the brilliant cinematography used when Conan is praying to his god , Crom , just before the final battle . He calls out for revenge , while the camera runs with the hard riding cohorts of Thulsa Doom , the music in the background . Fantastic cinema play , and one that ca n't be bettered.This should never be remade because they could never do a better job . This has a great story , a great score , strong characters , unforgettable scenes , all of which sadly were missing from the sequel . I 'm not bound by any loyalty to the pulp fiction of Robert E. Howard so I do n't care that this film strayed from the 'true ' Conan world .