GRAN TORINO***** Out of 5Release Date- December 12th , 2008Running Time- 116-MinutesRating- RScreenplay- Nick SchenkDirector- Clint EastwoodStarring- Clint Eastwood , Bee Vang , Ahney Her , Christopher Carley2008 was a great year in the legendary career of Clint Eastwood as he delivered two of the best films of his career with Changeling and Gran Torino ; both of these movies were two of the very best of 2008 and I fail to understand how neither of these movies received a best picture nomination or best director . If Gran Torino is Eastwood 's last acting gig he sure as hell went out with a bang with what just might be the best performance of his career.Gran Torino is vintage Eastwood he 's made a career playing the tough guy and he is the last of the ultimate film tough guys with Bronson and McQueen no longer with us . Even in his late 70s Clint can still pull the tough guy role off to perfection ; Think of Clint 's character as maybe an older Dirty Harry in terms of the tough guy persona . Again even at his age you never doubt that he 's still the ultimate tough guy . And again this is vintage Eastwood.Gran Torino gets off to a solid start , but there is n't anything that really stands out , but as the movie goes on it simply gets better and better and by the end of the movie I was blown away by how amazing of a movie this was and it had me in awe . Gran Torino is an instant classic and one of the best movies in Clint Eastwood 's career both as an actor and as a director.The screenplay by Nick Schenk was slightly clich & eacute ; d in some spots , but overall it worked well with some truly great characters that are also very well developed , which is something rare these days in Hollywood . Gran Torino may not have the perfect screenplay , but it 's a very good one . The dramatic scenes play out well and there is also some comedy and both these elements really work very well . Like I said the characters are fleshed out and developed and all the main characters will get a reaction from the viewer . So even if Gran Torino is slightly clich & eacute ; d in spots , Nick Schenk makes up for it with some truly great characters.As director Clint Eastwood knocks it out of the park with a truly gripping and touching movie . At first I was n't really a big fan of Eastwood 's direction . I never felt he was a poor director well outside of maybe The Rookie , which was a bit poor . But I never felt he was a bad director , but I never really got into his direction . But over the years I have found a new appreciation for Eastwood as a director and he 's by far one of my favorite directors now . What makes Eastwood such a great filmmaker is his simplicity , which can sometimes bring a filmmaker down , but Clint does n't try and be flashy and simply tells the story.Gran Torino again was truly gripping and touching ; Eastwood hits all the right spots in terms of drama and comedy and really brings you into this world and makes you care for the characters . The action sequences are brief , but all pack a punch and are n't overdone , but done in a simple way that makes them all the more powerful . It seems like the Academy always nominates Eastwood every chance they get , but why he was snubbed for Gran Torino and Changeling is beyond me . Gran Torino is everything it 's been made out to be and more . As filmmakers get older normally they do n't get better . But Clint is just as great now as he ever was and maybe in some ways better.About the only real flaw one can find with Gran Torino is possibly the acting . While none of the performances are terrible , but some are a bit wooden . Clint Eastwood is a great actor , but he does n't have a lot of range . He pretty much plays a variation of the same character for the most part and by no means is that an insult . Eastwood is possibly the best at the role he plays . Outside of Bronson and McQueen nobody can play the tough guy like Eastwood and I 'd say he 's a better actor than Bronson , but sorry I 'd have to give McQueen the edge . But while Clint may not have the most range he 's still a fantastic actor , but here with Gran Torino his performance was mind blowing . In terms of acting I think Unforgiven and Gran Torino were his two best as far as range goes . As Walt Kowalski , Eastwood is funny , sympathetic and very likeable . Eastwood shows a great deal of range and I truly believe an Oscar nomination should have come his way.Making their film debuts are Bee Vang as Thao and Ahney Her as Sue and both actors show some potential . Bee Vang does well and while his performance is by no means perfect and a little rough around the edges in some spots , but he handles it well and his character was likeable . Again it was his film debut so you can not expect perfection , but overall he does well even if a little stiff at times , but since the character was likeable I 'll give him the passing grade . Ahney Her however steals the show with a really great and energetic performance and what she has going for her is charisma . Each scene Ahney was in she really lit up the screen and brought a lot of fun to the character.Gran Torino was no doubt one of the best movies of 2008 and Eastwood 's performance is one of the best if not the best of his career . Despite some clich & eacute ; s Gran Torino works on every level and is a must see for all Eastwood fans.The Blu-ray release for Gran Torino was simply just ok ; the picture quality is excellent and no complaints there ; the sound was alright , but nothing really special . The features though are quite weak the Blu-ray has an exclusive feature about the making of the movie , which was pretty cool , but such a great movie and such a poor release just is n't right .