When a nuclear sub goes down in the Pacific Ocean unexpectedly and a hurricane prevents the military from being able to send a team in after it , they subcontract an underwater oil rig team drilling near the area led by Bud Brigman ( Ed Harris ) . To assist the rig team , the military sends in a group of Navy SEALs led by Lt. Coffey ( Michael Biehn ) accompanied with the underwater oil rig 's designer and Bud 's on again off again wife Lindsey Brigman ( Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio ) . But as they search the nuclear sub , they realize that there might be more to the sinking of the sub than they thought , and while Lt. Coffey believes the Russians to be responsible , the rig crew believes there might be something more ... supernatural involved.There are few directors that truly know how to top themselves with each endeavor the way that James Cameron does . His first movie , The Terminator set a precedent for action movies in the 80 's , and he only topped that achievement with Terminator 2 . With Aliens he made a movie that was at the very least equal to Ridley Scott 's Alien by making a sequel that changed the mood and style while still respecting the original . In 1989 James Cameron directed The Abyss , a film that took place mainly underwater , and was filmed in the largest underwater set at the time . The set , built in a half finished nuclear reactor facility , included 7 million gallons of water . So among Cameron 's other achievements , how does The Abyss stand up ? The Abyss is definitely Cameron 's most underrated film . Looking at movies like Avatar , Aliens , The Terminator , and Terminator 2 it 's easy to see how a movie like The Abyss can be forgotten , but on closer inspection The Abyss fits right along side the others . Like Cameron 's other films , he shows great attention to detail , with amazing special effects . On a technical scale , the movie feels like real life , something that 's always great when it comes to a Cameron film . But also like Cameron 's other films , it 's not about the special effects but rather about the human element . Cameron does a great job of humanizing his characters and fleshing out their relationships.The acting if phenomenal , of course I would n't expect anything less from a movie that includes Michael Biehn ( The Terminator , Aliens ) and Ed Harris ( The Truman Show , The Rock ) . Biehn does great as a military man who 's lost communication with the outside world and has to make calls on his own about their next move , and it 's driving him insane . Ed Harris is great as the hard ass rig leader who pines for his ex-wife who keeps running off on different jobs without him , and Marry Elizabeth Mastrantonio is great as the aforementioned wife who finds being stuck with Bud and his crew repulsive , but grows close to the husband she had left behind and the crew he manages.If you have n't seen this movie , but you like Cameron 's other flicks , I highly recommend you give this shot . I would argue that this movie is possibly even better than The Terminator , and since I think Aliens is better than The Terminator , I find this to be right on par with Aliens . Give it a shot , this is definitely a sleeper classic that deserves more exposure than it 's gotten .