I was terribly excited to discover that one of my favorite classic films , the 1963 Peter Brooks & quot ; Lord of the Flies & quot ; was on dvd . I was even more excited when I saw it had been given a deluxe treatment by some studio called Criterion . & quot ; Lord of the Flies & quot ; was the first dvd I bought and it introduced me to the phenomenal Criterion Collection . Every extra on this dvd is fantastic and interesting , there is no filler or meaningless praise . The commentary alone is worth the price of this dvd , it gives a magnificent insight into how this film was made : for instance , the film was one of the first independent productions ever produced . This is one of those rare commentaries that adds to your appreciation and understanding of the film , I rank it alongside & quot ; Seven Samurai & quot ; and & quot ; Grand Illusion & quot ; ( also both Criterion dvds ) commentaries as among the best I have heard . The film itself looks abolutely fantastic , worlds better than any vhs or laserdisc edition I had previously seen ; criterion 's produced an amazing , clean image that will be striking on any video set up . _Lord of the Flies_ is one of my favorite novels ; Golding masterfully touched on many themes and concepts about society and managed to capture the essence of humanity in the boyish caricatures he created . For the most part those themes and ideas come across very faithfully in the film . As it is pointed out in the dvd 's commentary ; there is no screenwriting credit , because there was no script , the production team worked straight from the novel , using it as their sole source of the story . The result is a remarkably clear and coherent adapation of the original novel , brought to life with great faith and startling prowess for a first time filmmaker . Some technical limitations can still be seen in the final product , but they do little to detract from your enjoyment of the film . In short : a fantastic , dark , and compelling story is brilliantly brought to life in such a stark manner that it feels to viewer at times like an unfolding documentary . Finally , to top it off , the film was given a royal treatment on dvd that perfectly complements and enhances the film itself ; in all , very much worth the price of admission .