The film is a strange animal , all right , a work sans genre , and at times Gordon seems to have overreached himself , grasping for effects he is n't quite able to achieve . The various styles , moods , and genres give the film a slightly garish , amateurish feel , yet in the end ( perhaps consciously on Gordon 's part ) this very awkwardness works in the film 's favor . The Singing Detective is a remarkably ingenuous work , fresh and daring , almost childlike in its lack of pretension , and easily one of the most original American movies of the last twenty years . Above all , it showcases Robert Downey Jr. 's raging , embittered psoriasis-afflicted pulp writer , inside whose head the whole movie ( more or less ) takes place , and Downey gives an inventive , powerful performance , what may be the apotheosis of his enormous talent . Praise for Downey notwithstanding , on its release Gordon 's film met with a wall of critical resistance , a veritable consensus of contempt . This may have been due in part ( in the UK at least ) to a fondness for Potter 's original TV series ; but it was perhaps due even more to the basic incompatibility of Potter 's idiosyncratic , scathing vision with mainstream ( critical ) tastes . Whatever the case , the movie once again tragically failed to find its audience.As with his previous adaptations , Gordon respected the source material without revering it , and as a director , he has a rare gift : the ability to fuse his own sensibility and talents with his subject at a fundamental level . In the case of The Singing Detective , it was a somewhat less seamless fusion ; Potter 's vision ( his bizarre blend of musical fantasy with bleak psychological realism ) was so startlingly original it required another sensibility at least as strong and eccentric to fuse with . Gordon does n't quite possess ( yet ) the surrealist gifts to make Potter 's vision his own , or to take it to the next level ( David Lynch might be the only director capable of that ) . He 's a proficient director in every way , and seems to be blessed with a natural rapport with actors ( perhaps why so many good ones want to work with him ) . Yet Gordon is n't a visionary director , and this was a visionary script . Fortunately , he had a visionary actor at a career peak to take up the slack , and Downey carries the day.The Singing Detective is n't a masterpiece ; it 's flawed and fractured and at times thin , even facile and occasionally redundant ( most especially in the pseudo-noir sequences ) . But it 's an imaginative and fearless piece of cinema , an admirably eccentric work that manages to do something like justice to a brilliant piece of writing . Full of inventive delights and heartfelt touches , it leaves most other recent American films in the dust . Yet it flopped badly , both in the UK and the US , being so poorly reviewed that many people ( myself included ) gave it a miss , wary of the stench of failure . As it happened , the bad smells came not from the film but from critics too corrupt and jaded to recognize a work of art when they saw it . ( Excerpt from `` True to the Muse : Keith Gordon 's Life on the Fringe , '' from DOGVILLE VS. HOLLYWOOD , by Jake Horsley )