This series was very reminiscent of series like Trigun , Full Metal Panic , and Outlaw Star nothing to serious but entertaining , dramatic , and funny enough to be very addictive . The first thing you have to realize is not to take most of this series seriously though if you 're looking for a hardcore dramatic series like Ghost In The Shell , Akira , or the like than this series wo n't be for you , while it has space mechas battles and some drama for most of the series it 's mostly light-hearted for the first season . The start of Vandread Second Stage does become a little more dramatic and serious though especially with the story-arc of what the people of Earth have done to the human colonies in space for their own agenda . The main plot of the series is that after a century or so of the male/female genders being separate and living on different worlds they for whatever reason have started fighting one another for resources and personal agendas . The stories on both sides on what the other genders are like also make the series very funny , as when you hear the story on the male home-world at how demonic the females are and how they will eat your organs and are just horrific . Thus begins the awkward journey of three males trapped on a ship of a multitude of attractive females after a battle between the genders goes chaotic and causes a fusion of the male and female space ships . The cast have a vast array of humorous situations that make for a good laugh throughout the show and the characters are hilarious as you see as they try to interact between the genders bumbling along sometimes . The true cute couple of the series for me were Hibiki Tokai a third grade citizen on his world who basically was just a lowly factory worker when he got trapped aboard the ship because he boasted he could bring back a vanguard , and Dita Liebely a bubbly female pilot of the ship who wants to contact her first alien and since she 's never seen a male before she sees Hibiki as the first alien she 's contacted . The video is clear and sharp so no complaints and the audio was also good the cast for both the Japanese/English were good as well . Again though like the recent releases from Funimation the set is four dvds put into two thinpack dvd cases and than into a paper sleeve , the extras are n't much just the standard textless intro/ending songs and some trailers but for the price still not bad . So if you like funny action drama sci-fi animes here 's a good one to look at for you anime collection ...