Putting in my two cents : The Girl Who Leapt Through Time has been on my to-watch list for awhile , but I never took the time to check it out until yesterday . I ( like most of the other reviewers ) was n't expecting too much , but after viewing their newer film `` Summer Wars '' I decided to give it a go . I have to say that despite being a slightly older film , this exceeds Summer Wars in almost every aspect ( except maybe computer animation ) .There are literally no weaknesses in this film . The animation quality remains high throughout . The characters are beautifully hand drawn and the backgrounds painstakingly rendered ( mostly hand drawn as well ) . The use of computer animation is kept to a minimum and mainly occurs when we view a 'leap'.The characters are strong and likable . Makoto is your typical clumsy teenager . A chance encounter followed by a ( nearly ) horrific accident enable her to 'leap ' through time . Rather than use this ability for so called 'evil ' ( I would be leaping back and investing heavily in certain stocks ... ) , Makoto uses the ability to make her life and the lives of her friends better . However , this begins to cause unforeseen and dire circumstances.And this is about the point where the movie shifts from lighthearted and somewhat comedic to fully dramatic and saddening . I wo n't divulge any events or spoil any plots for you , but let 's say that I was moved by the end of the film ( though not quite teary eyed ! ) .The Japanese voice acting is strong , especially considering at least 2/3 main characters are voiced by a first time voice actor . It goes to show you how in Japan , they take the voice acting seriously and cast well ( rather than the majority of American dubbing firms which have a core of 5 or 6 full time actors that they HAVE to match to a main character in each series or film - often not getting the best match to the character ) .So the story is strong with a little sci-fi edge , the characters are likable and well portrayed , the voice acting is wonderful , the animation is gorgeous ... why have n't you seen this yet ? If you are not a fan of anime , this might be a good film to help change your mind .