Release date : June 28 , 2006Director : Bryan SingerRuntime : 2 hours , 34 minutesLocations : New South Wales , Australia , and New York CityCast : Brandon Routh ( Superman ) , Kate Bosworth ( Lois ) , Kevin Spacey ( Luthor ) , James Marsden ( Richard White ) , Parker Posey ( Kitty ) , Frank Langella ( Perry White ) , Eve Marie Saint ( Clark 's mom ) and Marlon Brando ( Jor-el ) .STORY : Superman returns to Earth after five years trying to find out what happened to his homeworld . As Clark Kent he gets his job back at the Daily Planet newspaper , but finds out Lois Lane has moved on without him -- having a live-in fiance ( Marsden ) and a five-year-old child , not to mention winning a Pulitzer for her article `` Why the World Does n't Need Superman . '' Meanwhile Lex Luthor and his henchmen discover Superman 's Fortress of Solitude and steal some of the alien crystals . Luthor 's mad scheme is to create a new continent , killing billions of people in the process.Before seeing this film I scanned many of the Amazon reviews to see if it was worthwhile and the first thing I noticed was that most of the people wrote very long , detailed reviews . I thought , `` Wow , these Superman fans really take ol ' Supes seriously . '' I also noticed that people either seemed to love the film or hate it.Count me as one who loved it . I 'm not the biggest Superman fan but I used to collect many of the comics and I loved the first two movies . I only had a half hour to kill last Saturday night but the movie was so good I watched well over an hour without really realizing it and finished it the next night . In other words , the film successfully pulled me into the story and I lost track of time . This is a good sign ( especially when the film has so many dramatic parts ) .The story is an obvious retelling of the Christ story : -- Jor-el gives his son to protect ( save ) humankind. -- Superman repeatedly states that he 's everywhere and will always be around ( i.e . omnipresent ) . -- Luthor and his henchmen 's beating of Supes is reminiscent of Christ 's beating before his crucifixion. -- Superman sacrifices himself to save humanity from Luthor 's new continent. -- When superman `` dies '' above the atmosphere of Earth he is shown in a cross posture.In adition to this , Lois Lane is an obvious type of atheism . Although she once believed in and even loved Superman , she 's now convinced the world does n't really need him . She 's obviously unhappy and bitter ; she lacks the pizzazz she had when she once believed.Of course , all this heavy symbolism is useless if the story itself fails to capture the viewer 's attention . This is especially vital when the picture is two and a half hours long . But it succeeds ! The film definitely has an epic vibe to it , even more so than the first in the series . It seems more serious , i.e . less campy , especially where Luthor and his team are concerned . The film also possesses an imperceptible reverent quality . Even though the whole Superman mythos is totally absurd , the film somehow enables the viewer to accept it as real . On top of all this there are numerous humorous parts , which are truly laugh-out-loud funny ( watch out for the hilarious `` It 's a bird , '' `` It 's a plane '' piece ) .Other things worth commenting on : -- Some complain that Kate Bosworth lacks charisma as Lois Lane , but this all fits into the bitter `` I no longer believe '' subplot . Bosworth is fine in the role. -- Some complain about Superman 's 5-year visit to Krypton . What 's the problem ? Part of my youth was spent in Minneapolis and I 've gone back there numerous times to quell my curiosity . Why would n't Superman feel the same way ? Why was he gone so long and why did he need a crystalized craft ? Because he was potentially exposing himself to large amounts of Kryptonite ( radioactive pieces of his homeworld ) which would severely weaken him , not to mention he gets his powers from the Earth 's sun. -- Some complain about Lois ' fiance and her son , who may or may not be the offspring of Supes . Would n't it be natural for Lois to move on after about two years waiting ? Her `` shacking up '' before marriage can be attributed to her new `` I no longer believe '' mentality. -- Love is a strong theme here as is fitting for any retelling of the Christ story . Superman loves Lois and vice versa , even though Lois is initially in denial . Love gives life and saves from death. -- I liked the fact that Lois ' fiance ( Marsden ) is n't made out to be a villain . Interestingly , Lois picked a man who , as a pilot , could fly her around like Supes , albeit less spectacularly . I also like the fact that the film shows Lois being faithful to Marsden even though she discovers she still loves Superman . The human heart is capable of loving more than one person , but can only be faithful or committed to one , if you know what I mean. -- Frank Langella is his usual charismatic self as Perry White. -- Kevin Spacey is excellent as Luthor , much better than Hackman ; this is especially evident as the story progresses . His larger-than-life lunatic scheme is truly fitting for Supe 's main foe. -- There are numerous dramatic parts where the film takes its time to tell the story ; there 's obviously no rush to get to the next cgi action scene . Those with ADD beware . Needless to say , this is a film for adults even though kids will enjoy many aspects. -- `` Superman Returns '' was one of the most expensive films ever made at $ 209 million but made most of it back in North America ( $ 200 million ) while almost doubling it worldwide ( $ 391 million ) . What 's strange is studio heads were disappointed with these numbers ( ! ) , claiming it should have made $ 500 million.BOTTOM LINE : I was truly surprised to discover how good `` Superman Returns '' is . This is an epic and moving superhero film -- sci-fi/fantasy at it 's best , in fact . Is it as good or better than the best superhero films ? Not only is it as good or better , it 's deeper .