Before watching this , do not make the mistake of lumping this film in with silly cross dressing comedies like `` Tootsie '' and `` Mrs . Doubtfire . '' While based on a true story , director Greenwald sidesteps many western ( and Hollywood ) conventions to bring one of the best westerns of the 1990's.Suzy Amis plays Jo , a woman who is a little too trusting of some bad men . After escaping to the west and leaving her born out of wedlock son behind , she is almost raped by two soldiers . To hide from them , she wears men 's clothing and scars her face , eventually using her new facade to get what she needs in the west to survive . Ian McKellen plays a woman hater who takes her in , believing she is a young man . She eventually befriends Bo Hopkins , who has his best role in years , and starts a sheep ranch . She falls in love with a Chinese man she was forced to hire as her cook , and must eventually do battle with a cattle comglomerate trying to get a foothold and driving the sheep ranchers out.Amis resembles Eric Stoltz in her scenes as a man , and is totally believable . McKellan and Rene Auberjonois have small but pivotal roles as older father figures who Amis trusts , but eventually turn on her . Bo Hopkins is great as the neighbor Amis tolerates , befriends , and tolerates . David Chung plays the Chinese man nicknamed Tin Man as an ailing opium addicted flawed man . He looks perfect for the part , life scars and all . Heather Graham also has a small part as Amis ' paramour , and does her best with it.The most surprising aspects of this film is what the film is not . There are no cute `` Yentl '' scenes , where Amis falls in love with a man as a man . The cattle company war , a standard western plot point , never overwhelms the story , or comes to a trite conclusion . The final scenes , with Jo 's unmasking , seem almost like farce , but when thought about later , play very truthfully and touchingly , especially Hopkins ' reaction.Greenwald 's camera turns a small film into an epic , with gorgeous Montana scenery . Her script is also very smart , never going for cheap laughs or the kind of exploitation that a male director may have gone for . I strongly recommend `` The Ballad of Little Jo . `` This is rated ( R ) for physical violence , strong gun violence , some sexual violence , gore , some profanity , some female nudity , sexual content , sexual references , drug abuse , and adult situations .