I rarely write reviews ; I just tend to read them and most are quite helpful . I 'm writing this for two reasons : to comment on some of the negative `` reviews '' here and to share my thoughts and feelings about Gran Torino , which may be Clint Eastwood 's last movie.Last night it was late and I still was n't tired at all , so I went to my DVD collection and Gran Torino practically jumped into my hands . I put it in and before I started to watch it ( for the 6th time in the last 3 weeks ) , something told me to read the reviews at Amazon . After perusing through all 252 comments I was amazed at the people who gave negative reviews . The most used comment was `` wooden acting '' .My brother , who studied cinema and is a screenwriter , and I ( and I studied film as well ) talked about that very same comment that so-called professional critics leveled at the movie . We laughed at that because of two reasons : we grew up near a lot of Asian people and if they do n't know you they are VERY withdrawn and may seem a bit ... well , wooden . So Clint was being true to life with the portrayal of the Hmong people.The other thing that made us laugh is that Clint Eastwood is meticulous and thorough when he does pre-prep for any movie , especially one he plans to direct and act in . His work ethic allows him to be spontaneous behind and in front of the camera . And the `` critics '' did n't even notice that he purposely shot this film with a grainy stock , almost to make it have the look of a student film or a documentary . He intended to give the look and feel of Gran Torino the same sense of immediacy and uncertainty Walt Kowalski feels . Why else start with a funeral , followed by the experience we the audience have of seeing him alone in a house filled with so-called family ? We 're intended to feel his unease and sense of aloneness as well . And at the same time , next door , a child is being blessed : death and aloneness at his house while new birth and renewal of life is just next door ... although he does n't know it at the time while we do.One last note about the negative commentors : I noticed that they tended to be very short , like one sentence or two , whereas the people who liked/loved the movie wrote some really detailed comments on what the movie meant to them . Not one negative comment gave a detailed account of why they did n't like the movie . It seems they just got on the `` wooden acting '' bandwagon . Perhaps they may be relying on he `` crituque '' of so-called critics they 'd either read or seen on TV.I 've been watching a lot of Clint Eastwood and Robert Redford movies lately . I 've just been really drawn to them . I feel that they had similar careers , in that that they were perceived at first as nothing more than pretty boys- eye candy for the box office . But they both were very serious about their craft and became very masterful along the way . Both learned the basics and became excellent actors , directors and story-tellers . And both have created some of the best American cinema since the 1970s.What I love about both ( for some reason they seem very much the same in that they let expression and subtleties express SO much more than words ever could ) is that they are major stars and icons in our culture but they were mostly focused on their craft . So we have the benefit of a very rich legacy of cinema to learn from . And their movies are so fun to watch the lessons are effortlessly learned . Now that 's magic , to me.As a musician , writer and hopefully one day , a screenwriter as well , I can not even think of a better place to start than with movies from Clint Eastwood and Robert Redford . `` Less Is More '' is a sometimes over-used and misunderstood adage . With them , they make that saying sing like Maria Callas at her peak . They 've taught me that economy can equal depth , as well as a VERY important thing : get the audience engaged and thinking . They 've showed me , in movie after brilliant movie- just how much you can get from that simple yet difficult to master concept.Gran Torino is Clint Eastwood 's summation of his career , his limning the interstices of his place as an icon in cinema and yet another treatise on the art of `` Less Is More '' . I first saw it in the theatre , the first time in years I 'd even had the desire to go see a movie . I was a bit shocked at the graininess of the film stock at first but then I understood what he was doing . Just like in Unforgiven he used shadow to express light , here he was using graininess to express the very refined craft of making a film . And , as I wrote earlier- that grain gives a sense of immediacy , almost as if he could n't wait to say , `` Action ! '' and roll film.He sends up Dirty Harry ( `` Get OFF my lawn '' ) and the Outlaw Josey Wales ( the first time he has that what turns out to be a spitting contest of sorts with the Hmong grandmother , who 's spit is more potent than his , was hilarious ) . Those two characters redefined modern cinema . With Dirty Harry , an entire genre of movies would n't have been as rich as they became ; The Outlaw Josey Wales brought the Western back to prominence in modern cinema.While embodying these mythic characters on film he always knew his role in becoming an icon and understood the larger implications . So , while sending them up he also adds a great degree of pathos to Harry Callahan and Josey Wales . He 's studying them along with us and adding more depth and richness to them . What a brilliant technique ! With Gran Torino we are watching a master seemingly effortlessly and quite playfully display his work for us to see just what it takes to make great art . And he gives a very eloquent summation of his iconic impact on modern cinema . And besides that- it 's a great film . Popcorn , please ! This movie clearly shows he was n't just a pretty boy . There was a great artist always inside .