Manny Pontoriero 's latest instructional DVD set includes two DVDs that offer outstanding instruction in landscape photography.As with Manny 's earlier instructional DVDs , do n't just watch a DVD once . Instead , watch a DVD , take a ton of pictures , and then watch the DVD again . Digital photography allows you to take many photos of a scene , from every angle , using different lenses and filters , with an immediate review of your efforts , and without the need for development as with film photography.The first DVD includes multiple sessions with Manny offering classroom style instruction that includes drawings and samples of a topic . Then , it is out into the field to use those principles in action . It is in the first DVD that Manny also explains Parallel Thinking . Parallel Thinking is ` how else can I photograph this scene ' ? Do n't just take the one picture that you initially saw . Instead , what other options ( different times of the day , different seasons , using different lenses , etc . ) can you use to capture the scenes at a location ? The second DVD offers 14 sessions in the field at different landscape location along the East Coast . In each session , Manny offers detailed description of what he is doing at each location , along with why . Throughout those sessions are tidbits of information you might miss , yet are important . For example , if you are stacking filters on a lens use a step-up ring so you can use larger filters on a lens and not vignette your photo . Or , do n't change lenses at the beach if the wind is blowing as you do not want to get sand grains into a lens or the camera ; and , vacuum the lens and camera when back home to remove any sand grains on the outside surfaces.The second DVD contains a bonus 15th session in which Manny moves from the camera to the computer to briefly explain what changes he might make to a specific photo . He uses the raw editor of Photoshop to make those adjustments , along with the neutral density adjustment available from that editor.I highly recommend Manny 's DVD sets , especially this two DVD landscape photography set .