Down Argentine Way is a delightful , light fare type of early 1940s movie musical that should charm just about anyone who loves this type of motion picture . We get fine performances from great stars including Betty Grable , Don Ameche , Carmen Miranda and the incredible dancing Nicholas Brothers ! The plot moves along at a good pace and the acting was quite convincing.The action starts when horse lover Glenda Crawford ( Betty Grable ) and her mother Binnie Crawford ( Charlotte Greenwood ) are at the racetrack -- once again . It seems the Crawford family has always loved horses and they race them , too . Glenda sees a fine race horse and she wants to buy the horse -- trouble is , however , that the horse belongs to crabby Don Diego Quintana ( Henry Stephenson ) , who harbors a long and somewhat silly personal grudge against Willis Crawford , the patriarch of the Crawford family.Anyway , Glenda and Binnie go to Argentina after their first attempt to buy horses from Quintana does n't go over very well . It 's also not long before Glenda falls in love with Quintana 's son Ricardo Quintana ( Don Ameche ) who is equally charmed by Glenda . The young couple tries to pass Glenda Crawford off to Don Quintana as Glenda Cunningham in the hopes that he will like her and then not care if she 's a Crawford ; but that too has its complications.Meanwhile there 's a horse bred for racing -- will Don Quintana ever let the horse race ? It 's a flimsy subplot but the few horse races that we do see in this film enhance the action ; and that 's all right by me ! Look for some excellent song and dance numbers -- remember , these plots were practically just excuses for the studio to film fabulous song and dance numbers . Rumor has it that after the public first saw The Nicholas Brothers dance they cheered so much the projectionist had to rewind the film to show their scene again ! Charlotte Greenwood also scores big with her nearly unbelievable ability to kick way high with her legs as she merrily dances in another number . Betty Grable dances very well , too . In addition , this film marks Carmen Miranda 's film debut ; she sings a couple of songs during the movie as well as a brief tune at the very beginning of the movie . Carmen sparkles even when they were n't playing her up as much as they did in later films ! The DVD comes with a superlative extra on the life and times of Betty Grable . She really did seem like an especially sweet gal who actually did n't want too much out of life and enjoyed her private family life as best as she could . The quality of the still photos in the extra on Betty Grable is excellent . There is also a running but optional commentary for people who want to know what went on behind the scenes as this movie was being filmed . Great ! Overall , Down Argentine Way is a musical well worth seeing . I usually reserve five stars for a MGM musical ; but this time Fox really did it up right ! Fans of classic movie musicals can not afford to miss this one !