As quite a few reviews show , if you love this film , you 'll *really* love it ; if you loathe it , you 'll *really* loathe it . Since I 've already seen it twice , and I 'm ready to see it again , you can place me firmly in the first category -- I have n't been as transported & moved by a film since `` The Fountain '' ( which evoked similar love-or-loathe responses in viewers ) . It does require the willing suspension of glib cynicism , which I suspect may be a sticking point for some ... but if you 're willing to open your mind , and your heart even more , you 'll be amply rewarded.The plot is simple , as it should be : a thread woven through the lives of several characters , which carries them through the major events of the 1960s . The richness comes in the evocation of the times , in the countless little details whirling around the characters . And most importantly , when all is said & done , this is a love story , beautifully & movingly told . If you 've ever felt the intense emotions expressed in these gorgeous songs , then you 'll identify with Jude & Lucy , Sadie & JoJo , and all of their friends . Not just romantic love , either , but genuine love of others as brothers & sisters , all of us together in this confusing , exhilarating world.So -- are there awkward moments , or scenes just a little too precious for contemporary tastes ? Of course ! But that really does n't matter , because one of the hallmarks of the 1960s was a willingness to take ridiculous chances , to risk looking foolish , or even to fall flat on one 's face . I 'm glad Julie Taymor took similar risks here , because it helps to capture the sensibility of that time , a sensibility which led to tremendous creativity & innovation.And it 's not just about that time . The questions of needless war , of demonization of the Other , of intolerance & a fear of change , of mistrusting the imagination -- are n't these just as potent today as they ever were ? But while the film is definitely on the side of the counterculture at its best , Julie Taymor does n't hesitate to show how even the best of idealistic intentions could go into dark places , as with some protesters moving on to bombs . A paean of peace & love , it 's also well-acquainted with grief & despair.Fittingly , the movie ends with the anthem , `` All You Need Is Love , '' a song that 's been dismissed by some as a hopelessly naive & dated flower power artifact . But I 'm reminded of something George Harrison once said , when he was asked if love really *is* all you need -- he replied that even if it 's not *all* you need , if you do n't have it , then what good 's the rest ? Yes , it 's a shimmering , sunlit cloud of golden nostalgia in one sense ... but it 's also a reminder that there 's more to life than fear & darkness , that there 's hope even in the midst of madness & chaos . And in that sense , it 's very much a contemporary film , with a vital message . Most highly , happily recommended !