The Enterprise picks up several envoys from various planets to desposit them on a planetoid named Babel . Their plans are to discuss the acceptance of Coridan as a member of the Federation . Some members of the Federation are strongly opposed to accepting them . The reasons vary from blood feuds to the desire of criminals to steal the valuable Dylithium crystals from the planet - the protection of the Federation would end such criminal ventures of other Federation members.Among the delegates are Vulcans , Andorians and a pig-faced alien delegation that look like crosses between Bassett Hounds and the Ugnaughts from `` Return of the Jedi '' with hauntingly hollow eyes and a short temper . The makeup on the Andorians was remarkably well done for the time period.When Vulcan Ambassador Sarek and his wife Amanda board the Enterprise , there is obvious tension and Sarek asks that someone other than Spock be his `` tour guide '' of the ship . It is then revealed that Sarek and Amanda are Spock 's parents . Jane Wyatt is the doting wife and mother who has subdued much of her emotions to accommodate Sarek , but still lets them erupt from time-to-time . Mark Lenard begins his life-long career as Sarek , who we continue to see until his death in one of the latter seasons of `` Star Trek : The Next Generation . `` Sarek has not spoken to Spock in 4 years . Angry that his son refused to study the same subjects he and his father had studied , there are angry , yet subdued silences between them . Amanda must run to and fro to placate them both in her own gentle way.One of the pig-faced aliens , a gruff fellow named Gaz , confronts Sarek in the lounge and threatens him when Sarek states his intent to vote for the acceptance of the Coridans . Soon after , Gaz is found , murdered . An autopsy reveals that his neck was broken in the one spot that would cause instant death . Spock recognizes this as a form of death penalty used on Vulcan centuries earlier , preferred for it 's speed and painless delivery . A method called Tal-Shaya , well known to his father . An interesting tidbit that the Romulan equivalent of the KGB is called the Tal-Shayar in Next Gen episodes - Romulans are distant cousins of the Vulcans and their languages no doubt have common roots ... perhaps the English translation of the Tal-Shayar is `` the neck killers '' ? Anyhoo , Sarek is thought to be a suspect , but is eliminated when it 's obvious that a faulty heart valve has been keeping him out of commission . A risky operation requires that Spock , the only Vulcan onboard with the same rare T-negative blood-type , to provide nearly half his blood during a transfusion . Why they could n't take a pint a day is beyond me.Spock prepares to be the source of blood for his father when Kirk is attacked by an Andorian . The Andorian clearly stabs Kirk in the lower back , near his kidneys in the attack right before Kirk kicks him back and knocks him out cold . Kirk reaches down to his side and pulls up a bloody hand and uses the wall-mounted intercom to call for help right before losing consciousness . In sickbay , we see Kirk with a bandage around his bare chest . We are now told that his lung was punctured and the Andorian barely missed his heart . Considering he was using a tiny knife that could n't have reached from his butt all the way to his heart , I think they should have re-shot the fight scene , but that 's just me . It 's like the lung injury was an after thought of the battle scene and maybe the writers thought that the audience would n't `` get '' a kidney injury the way they 'd understand how a lung injury would leave him winded . Eh , whatever . Bad continuity in those scenes , either way.Spock suddenly refuses to aid in his father 's surgery . He must instead command the Enterprise because there has been one murder onboard the Enterprise , one attempted murder , arguments among the delegates and there an unidentified alien vessel has been pursuing them , just barely outside the reach of their sensors and weapons.As a pained , disoriented Kirk awakens in Sick Bay , he 's told the news and must figure out a way to get Spock on the operating table without violating Federation regulations and the stubborn Vulcan 's oath to duty and logic . A subsequent interrogation and search of the Andorian that attacked Kirk results in some interesting findings that will have you on the edge of your seat.Despite some cheese here and there , this is one of the most exciting episodes in the old series . An excellent show .