This is not a review of the quality of the dvd , the cinematography , the acting , etc. , but rather the essential element of what I take to be the smartest film of the year , though not unflawed . *Spoiler alert*From what I 've read , it seems that most of these reviewers either did n't grasp the ambiguity of the ending or , if they did , found it too implausible . The former group ( most moviegoers ) , not realizing the ambiguity of whether he really did do this or not , seemed to miss that the last line hearkens back to the conversation with the warden , the philosophical crux of the movie , in which case Leo is resisting accepting that it 's the nature of man to be violent.If nothing else , the last line suggests that if he really did do what they say , he at least has a certain level of self-knowledge about it , is looking sanely at his insanity and refusing to live with it . Or it could be the case that he always was sane , that he really was right about what was going on and refused to accept their suggested memories and the warden 's view , but realizing he could never escape and thus deciding to ` die a hero'.As for what some have said , that this latter premise is too incredible , I disagree . Why is it so hard to believe that a country would be incapable of something like this ? During the time period in which this film takes place , most U.S. states were still sterilizing the mentally and physically handicapped . Would it be so big a moral step to go from this to experimenting on psychotic criminals , people with no future , for the good of our national security , our way of life , our dominance in world affairs ? Of course , there are problems with taking this interpretation of the film 's ending . It would be highly coincidental if the four names really were anagrams of themselves . He has dreams throughout the movie that allude to the finale , before the explanation was ever even suggested by the doctor ( though I only watched it once and could be missing something ) On the other hand , if Leo really did hallucinate the scene in the cave with Rachel , then why was there a total lack of surrealism , unlike all other such sequences ? The practical answer , to convince the audience of it until the end , is not credible.The contradictions here seem to stem from the fact that Scorsese is revisiting the same theme he explored at the very end of ` the King of Comedy ' , and in the same style : we 're left guessing whether it really did happen or whether its all in the character 's mind . I have n't read the book , but from what I understand Scorsese added a layer not present in Lehane 's work , where it definitely is just all in the character 's mind , similar to ` the Machinist ' ( not to knock Lehane : with his psychological depth and misanthropic take on human nature , he is the inheritor of the great Clouzot - though probably more successfully in ` Mystic River ' ) . By adding the ambiguity at the end without changing some plot points to boot , gaps in logic arise . If this were to have been cleaned up a bit , I would not hesitate to rank 'SI ' with 'Raging Bull ' and 'Taxi Driver ' . Even so , this is still one of the good ones .