Clint Eastwood pulls double duty as director and actor here , starring as Walt Kowalski , a mean , cranky old racist who has a change of heart in `` Gran Torino '' . The journey Walt takes is just one of several making up the movie though . It starts with the funeral of Walt 's beloved wife , who we never see but gather was somewhat of a kinder soul than Walt , and probably a positive influence as far as keeping his nastier character traits at bay . In the days following the funeral we see Walt as alone and bitter , estranged from the rest of his family and seemingly unable to make emotional connections . One of the things making him so bitter is that his neighborhood is becoming increasingly Asian in character . North America is changing , and places that were once almost exclusively white are now more multi-racial or in some case dominated by one particular ethnic group . This neighborhood has an increasing number of Hmong ( a Southeast Asian ethnic group ) , and it 's safe to say that Walt has n't been overjoyed to see their numbers increasing over the years . At the start of the movie , he 's a racist , not just 'old and set in his ways ' , not just 'narrow-minded ' , but outright racist . The fact that the movie does n't try to sugarcoat it makes the character 's transformation much more powerful . There are two main interpersonal 'pulls ' in the movie - one is Walt 's being pulled against his will into the fabric of the neighborhood , the other is a Hmong kid of around 15 ( I estimate ) , Thao ( Bee Vang ) - Walt 's next door neighbor - being pulled against his will into a Hmong-dominated street gang . He 's cousin to one of the heads of the gang , and therefore , as the gang expands further and further from their traditional stomping grounds and into the suburbs , Thao gets invited to join . In classic gang style , it 's an offer he ca n't refuse . So little by little he 's getting sucked into this lifestyle that he very much wants to avoid , but appears powerless to . His initiation feat into the gang is to steal his neighbor Walt 's classic Gran Torino car . When he 's caught in the act and the other members flee , his family decides his punishment is to 'help out ' Walt with yard work , household chores , etc . for the next little while , as atonement . Walt is n't interested and refuses the deal , but Thao is pushed to try and make ammends anyway . Not long after , an incident in the neighborhood involving the gang occurs , and Walt becomes the neighborhood hero by running a couple of gang members off . To Walt 's horror , this seems to spur the Hmong community in the neighborhood to 'adopt ' him , arriving with gifts and baskets and food , always greeting him warmly , seemingly oblivious to the fact that Walt does n't like them very much . Of course , despite his hostility towards Asians , he 's never really known one outside of his experiences in the Korean War , where they were on opposite sides ( he seems to have plenty of recollections of Koreans as the enemy , but few of the South Koreans as his side 's allies ) . As he 's unwillingly drawn into the community , his feelings toward his Hmong neighbors slowly begin to change ... This may sound cliched or contrived , but absolutely nothing in the movie comes off that way . Every characterization and interaction - good or bad - feels very genuine . During this time we see Walt trying and failing to re-establish some kind of connection with his biological family ; we also see him being very shocked with himself that he 's becoming so close to his 'new ' family , particularly Thao and his older sister Sue ( Ahney Her ) , to both of whom he seems to be filling some kind of uncle of even fatherly role . Meanwhile though , the other pull is still going - the gang 's determination to recruit Thao , seemingly motivated primarily by the fact that they 're offended by the idea of anyone turning them down . Thao is increasingly determined not to go that way , but that just seems to make the gang more insistent . Gran Torino gives a really good picture of the hard spot someone like Thao is in when he 's targeted for recruitment like this by a gang that might do anything at all if he does n't go along with them . It 's a predicament his family sees , and that Walt comes to recognize as well . The movie becomes extremely intense in its end stages , building up to a tremendously powerful finale . What 's more unexpected is all the humor and , for lack of a better word , 'warmth ' that starts coming in about a third of the way through . These elements do n't clash with the tension , but provide a counterpoint . And as we see in the movie , things can turn from very 'happy ' to very , very grim on a dime . An ability to juggle seemingly disparate tones , and universally excellent performances , help make Gran Torino a great movie on all levels . For a skillful blend of drama , tenderness and vicious suspense , you ca n't go better than this one .