The all-time classic tale of demonic possession , based on William Peter Blatty 's bestselling novel . Linda Blair is Regan MacNeil , a twelve-year-old girl who becomes manifested by a truly malevolent spirit . Her mother , Chris MacNeil ( Ellen Burstyn ) , an agnostic , seeks out help from a young Jesuit psychiatrist , Father Damien Karras ( Jason Miller , God rest his Irish soul ! ) who has demons of his own , and is tormented by the recent death of his mother , and his loss in the faith that he sought refuge in . After confronting the demon within the girl ( and himself ) , Karras , although skeptical of demonic possession , is given permission by the church to assist during the exorcism . The priest selected to perform the ritual is a mysterious , elderly Jesuit , Father Lankaster Merrin ( Max Von Sydow ) who has seen such devilish work before . As the two clergymen face off against the demon , a police detective , Lt. William F. Kinderman ( Lee J. Cobb ) finds some links connecting the girl with a puzzling death and desecration in the local Catholic church.William Friedkin brilliantly directed , and Blatty adapted the screenplay ( receiving an Oscar for his efforts ) and produced . The cast gives extraordinary , sensitive performances ( Burstyn , Miller and Blair were all nominated for Academy Awards ) and the special effects are breathtaking and still pack a punch , with veteran actress Mercedes McCambridge providing the voice of the evil entity . ( The film also won for Best Achievement In Sound ) . The underlying theme of much of Blatty 's work is evident , his philosophy being , if there 's all this evil out there , why is there so much good ? Metaphorically , everyone fights there own demons , and even in his last self-sacrificing moment , Karras finds his faith again and heroically gives his life to save this innocent child . How more meaningful can it be ? A truly terrifying , engrossing and ultimately touching film dealing with faith and human frailty .