In this review I 'll be reviewing both DVD versions of the excellent film The Exorcist that are available on DVD . ( There is another Exorcist DVD that came out in 1997 , but is now discontinued . This will not be reviewed . ) First I will review the DVDs , then I will analyze both versions of the film to see which is the better version to own.DVDs : Picture : Both versions are presented in their original theatrical aspect ratio of about 1.78:1 . In terms of video quality , both DVDs are about equal . Sharpness and detail are pretty good for a film that 's now 30 years old . This is certainly the best The Exorcist has ever looked . If you have viewed only the VHS or the Laserdisc , then this can look like a pretty washed out film . Not so on DVD ! Colors are very good for a 30 year old film . ( 5/5 ) Sound : While the video quality on both DVDs were very close , here , The Version You 've Never Seen definately has the edge . The Dolby Digital 5.1 remix on the 25th Anniversary DVD is pretty good . Surrounds are not that active , and most of the action seems to take place in the center channel . There is one scene in the film that screamed for surround sound , but the surrounds are n't active in this scene on this DVD . That scene is during the exorcism , the room begins to shake violently as Regan is floating in the air . The Dolby Digital 5.1 EX remix on The Version You 've Never Seen corrects not only this scene , but the surrounds are much more active , for a much more enthralling , and ultimately , more frightening mix . The mix on The Version You 've Never Seen is absolutely astonishing for a 30 year old film . 25th Anniv : ( 4/5 ) Version You 've : ( 5/5 ) Extras : The 25th Anniversary DVD is filled with fascinating extras . First off is a commentary by director Willaim Friedkin . This is very entertaining and informative . There 's also a commentary by William Peter Blatty , which is n't as good , but still worthwhile . Next up is the excellent 75 minute documentary The Fear of God : The Making of The Exorcist . This is really a great documentary , and is one of the best I 've ever seen . Then there are additional interviews with Friedkin and Blatty discussing Friedkin 's cut of the film , and how Blatty prefers the cut that was orinally shown to him . Next up are sketches and storyboards . Finally there are about 7 or 8 TV spots and 4 theatrical trailors . The Version You 've Never Seen does n't have near as many extras . First up , there 's a new commentary by Friedkin , which just basically explain what 's going on onscreen , and some the spiritual meanings behind the movie . There 's also some production notes , 2 theatrical trailors , 4 TV spots , and 2 radio commercials . 25th anniv : ( 5/5 ) Version You 've : ( 3/5 ) Movie : The Exorcist is an excellent film . Anyone who says that this film is pure evil , and should never be seen by anyone and Satan worshipers would only enjoy this movie do n't have any idea what they 're talking about . I 'm a Christian , and I think that this is a very important film that has a deep and powerful message . Does the devil win at the end ? Absolutely not . Notice if you will , when Father Karras screams at the demon to come into him , in an act of self-sacrifice , his face flashes briefly then he jumps out the window to save Regan . And as Father Dyer is giving him the last rights , Damion squeezes Dyers hand , showing that he is conscience enough to give his soul to God . So , good won over absolute evil . Is there evil in the film ? Yes . What I admire most about The Exorcist is that Friedkin had the guts to show pure evil , and he did n't pussy foot around the subject matter . I also feel that the masturbation with the crucifix scene was merited , and did serve an ultimate purpose . Is the movie offensive ? Yes , but it had to be . One must remember that if somebody were possessed by a demon , that this is probably what it would be like . The demon would scream every foul word possible in an attempt to weaken those around it . I believe what William friedking says about the film . You take out of the film what you bring to it . If you believe , like i do , that there is good in the world , and that it can overcome evil , then The exorcist will re-affirm your faith . I believe that this is an excellent , thought provoking film , and should be seen by every one , especially Catholics and Christians who have open minds . The Version You 've Never Seen adds 11 minuted of footage back into the original film . I did n't mind the new ending . I felt that the `` spider-walk '' sequence felt really odd , and out of place . The extended dialog between Karras and Merrin is well done , and probably should have been there in the first place . Also there is a new examination scene at the doctors office with Regan . This , too , should have been left in the film . Another important scene that should have been in the original cut is a scene with Father Karras listening to a tape of Regan 's natural voice before the possession . There is another cut scene that can bee seen on the 25th Anniversary DVD of Regan and her mother , Chris MacNeil touring around Washington for Regan 's birthday that I really wish would have been put back in . Whichever way you choose to watch the film , it 's still a masterpice , and the scariest film of all time . Both versions : ( 5/5 )