The Golden Army - an army made to keep humanity in check because humanity has a problem with consuming everything around it . Of elvish thought and goblin design , it has the power to do things that only the desperate - or a madman - would want . The elvish kind figure that out , split their toy up , and let the army rust . Unfortunately for humanity , rust is an arbitrary word and the Golden Army is something that never stopped being a threat . And when the powerplay begins to emerge , the BPRD are the only ones around that have the skills to stop it.When I heard what the source material for the movie was , I knew the director/ Migola knew what they were doing BUT it frightened me a bit . I say that because Hellboy II was creatively based on a novelization between Christopher Golden and Mike Mignola and is not truly reflective of Hellboy . It had a good idea and some good creature-features but , in the end , the book was a mild disappointment . Fast-forward to the book and you saw what a good director could do with something that needed a golden ( pardon the pun ) touch . The toothfairies , Wink , the elemental , the goblin , the angel ( if you want to understand that little beastie and what it says more , check out the backstory to Anung Un Rama and the way the beast was created . This takes place in a short story and highlights some lovely little things that a person should see for themselves to truly understand everything ) and all the characters in-between . Happily , the casting has always been good , the direction is fabulous , and Hellboy is portrayed the way Hellboy should be portrayed.This means that he thinks with his fist , has a gun the size of a small man , and is not really filled with a little thing called respect.As far as what the movie offered , let me just say that it had a bit of everything . The action was quite good , the human ( and I use human loosely ) elements of the tale were fantastic , and the movie explored some more of what the BRPD is . They allowed viewers shapshots into the each person , into their likes and their wants , and they added a new character that translated oddly from book-to-movie but still translated well as a character . Ron is a perfect Hellboy , too , and he lets this shine in this new installment . In the part with the elemental you can see how much he is impacted , and in the fights with specific beings you can tell he does n't want to hurt them . He wants to be liked by everyone and understands the plight of the things that `` threaten '' humanity . Del Toro adding that in made in amazing because that is one of Hellboy 's things in the books - enough so that the BPRD and he really have some major problems.If you like Hellboy and you want a movie on the subject , this is good work . I know there have been a lot of complaints here and there about certain aspects of the film , but Hellboy is a solid follow-up and fans of the novels/ the first movie will enjoy themselves . If you pay extra attention to the details involved you will find all sorts of good stuff hidden in the backdrop , allowing a peek at what Anung Un Rama is struggling with as a demon-made-human by his own choices . You can also see potential elements that could have ramifications for the world and everyone inhabiting it - I liked that a lot as well . Combine that with a LOT of extra ( we even get a comic that moves about to keep the ADD watchers in us sated ) , and you have a second helping that explores what the first movie could only build.Highly beloved .