The Banks family is in need of a new nanny for Jane and Michael . Fortunately , one arrives on the wind in the form of Mary Poppins . She 's everything the kids want , fun and magical . But while she 's taking them to chalk painting countrysides and tea parties on the ceiling , their father is less then happy . Can he be made to see beyond the end of his nose ? Ok , so this movie is really little more then an excuse for song and dance numbers . It 's still great ! The plot is paper thin , and you loose site of it in the middle of some of their fantastic scenes . Of course , part of that is because the movie is based on a book that is really nothing but short stories . Still this movie is more about fun then anything else . And it has that in spades . What kid would n't have fun imaging that they get to do all the things that Jane and Michael do in this movie ? It 's said that Walt Disney poured everything he had learned into making this film , and it shows . Many of the special effects hold up remarkably well today . There were some I still had n't figured out until watching this special edition . And the music ! Any fan of Disney knows these songs by heart . And you ca n't help but find yourself humming `` A Spoonful of Sugar , '' `` Jolly Holiday , '' `` Let 's Go Fly a Kite , '' or `` Chim Chim Cher-ee '' for days after seeing it.Those wanting to own a great DVD of this film wo n't be disappointed in this two-disc set . Disc one features the movie in all its wide screen glory . I ca n't see how it 's ever looked better . The soundtrack has many different options , but the Home Theater mix will blow you away . It 's fantastic . There is also a commentary track featuring Julie Andrews , Dick van Dyke , Karen Dubice ( Jane ) , and Richard Sherman . Sprinkled in are archive comments from others , including Disney himself . Also included are some pop up facts to read along with while watching the movie . Disc two features a new documentary on the film , a deleted song , and more on the music with Julie , Dick , and the composers . And be sure to check out the animated `` The Cat That Looked at a King , '' a tale adapted from one of the later books in the series.One thing that comes through loud and clear in this set is how much fun everyone had making it and how much they respect Walt Disney . The fact that this film has lasted 40 years is testament to his genius . With this set , it 'll be enjoyed by generations to come .