If you have never seen a coming out movie , this is the one to pick . One of the most critically acclaimed gay movies , it is a sensitive , caring , tender , and sweet story with a superb Mama Cass score . The movie has also been acclaimed to be a good representation of the working class in British society.The movie greatly directed by Hettie McDonald and based on the screenplay of gay writer Jonathan Harvey portrays the relationships of people in a large tenement complex located in East of London ( I was physically there ) . Mostly for low income , working class Britons , the movie revolves around three families , all broken homes . Ste , coming from an abusing father and brother family ; Jaime , a mother and a boyfriend family ; and Leah , a British Black girl with her mother.The story is the development of a gay loving relationship between two boys , Ste ( played by Scott Neal ) and Jaime ( played by Glenn Berry ) . They both live next to each other . They are both 16 ( also in real life to maintain accuracy ) . It is also the story of Leah , sometimes drug user , troubled , dropout teenager . She is a catalyst with her obsession of Mama Cass music , constantly singing her songs and making a lot of noise around the apartments . I have read messages in this movie chat room about her , not understanding why she is the movie . Her character contributes to the greatness of the movie.Ste is been beaten several times by his father and brother . He takes refuge in Jaime 's home . Jaime 's mother , Sandra ( superbly performed by Linda Henry ) . She loves Jaime dearly and left her husband because of physical abuse . She is a tough , no-nonsense , caring , and loving woman , who runs the local bar/club in this apartment complex . She feels sorry for Ste and takes him in . Ste has to sleep in Jaime 's bed or a couch . Then one thing leads to another , Jaime kissing Ste.There is a trip to a local gay bar , more kissing in the woods . Sandra finds out that her son has been lying to her about his love for Ste . She is informed by the school principal that Jaime is being teased and called a `` fag . '' And the movie comes to it 's final moments.Leah playing Mama Cass music late at night while high and almost falling down from the balcony of the apartment building , and Ste finding out that Sandra knows about them.While Sandra has been offered a better job to run a pub in another area of East London , she says goodbye to her boyfriend , and preparing to have night out with the girls . Ste , Jaime , and Leah preparing to go the gay bar again.The final scenes of the movie show Ste and Jaime dancing ( to a tune of Mama Cass music ) in an open area of the apartment buildings while tenants are congregating to watch the whole thing , some in an uproar . Sandra comes out to the balcony , next to Leah , watching what was going on below . One of the best scene I have ever seen in a movie of any kind is the extension of Leah 's hand to Sandra ( the symbolism is so powerful ) . By the way , Sandra and Leah fight like cats and dogs throughout the movie , they mend in the final moments . They both joined Ste and Jaime in the dancing , and Sandra finally accepts her son sexuality.This is a very powerful movie and the title is very appropriate . Both Glenn and Scott have stated on interviews that they received thousands of letters after the film asking if they were gay . Glenn disappeared from the screen and Scott did some minor things . The language is hard to understand sometimes . There are websites with dictionary of the slangs used by the working class in Britain . Someone put a screenplay for a sequel in the Internet , it is rather good . This is a `` GREAT '' movie