Hollywood werewolves have long been characterized as serious creatures who lope after their victims like an hirsuit Groucho Marx . The image of this loping werewolf was originally etched by Lon Chaney and succeeding generations of actors merely continued his style . But with AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON , director John Landis not only pushed the werewolf back down on all fours so it would resemble nothing less than a bristling mobile lycan tank but he also added a much needed touch of humor to force viewers to stand apart momentarily from the gore to contemplate what they had just seen . David Naughton and Griffin Dunne are two Americans backpacking their way through a gloomy English moor right out of Heathcliffe 's WUTHERING HEIGHTS . They are attacked by a howling werewolf who kills Dunne but merely bites Naughton before it itself is shot by villagers . This introductory scene in which Naughton and Dunne are banished by an unfriendly group of pub drinkers is an unsettling mixture of creepy fear leavened with biting wit . It is precisely this same melding of horror and humor that suggests that the viewer engage in extremes of emotions that range from laughing to choking , with the viewer sometimes not sure which one to choose . Jenny Agutter is a much underappreciated actress who shines as a nurse who falls for Naughton , and can not understand a radical change in his eating habits as he increasingly comes to prefer his meat extra rare . Agutter adds an unexpected dimension to a role that in another and less competent director 's hands might have relegated her to little more than a fetching piece of English eye candy . Griffin Dunne supplies visceral humor as a corpse that keeps popping up , like Hamlet 's father 's ghost , at opportune times to remind Naughton that the price to pay to be free from lycanthropia may be a tad too high . And then there is the music , played in much the same vein as Simon & amp ; Garfunkle 's lyrics from THE GRADUATE , but here Credence Clearwater Revival 's lilting & quot ; Bad Moon Rising & quot ; punctuates the eye popping transformation scenes that a bad moon leads to bad vibes . Finally , the special effects of Rick Baker are stunning in that you can see bones elongating , fur sprouting , and nostrils stretching as Naughton is seen scaring himself as much as the audience . Ultimately , AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON is a ground breaker in the werewolf genre in that sight and sound combine to present creatures as helpless in their own way as their victims are in their own .