Welcome to The Rileys drew me in more and more as the movie progressed ; at first I thought it was a bit too slow but when the pace picked up with the backdrop of New Orleans I was rather impressed by what it had to say . The casting could n't have been better ; Melissa Leo gives an outstanding performance as a guilty housewife punishing herself for a long-ago car accident that took her daughter 's life ; and James Gandolfini turns in a masterful performance as her husband Doug who just ca n't seem to get past his grief and personal demons . The choreography and the cinematography enhance the movie and the musical score does a great job of making the film even better , too.Lois Riley ( Melissa Leo ) and her husband Doug ( James Gandolfini ) are still most unhappy even though it 's been eight years since the death of their daughter in a car accident . Lois has n't left the house since the car accident ; indeed , Lois has been so depressed that she already has headstones for her and Doug next to their late daughter 's grave , a fact that gives Doug the creeps . Doug also has a long standing affair with a waitress named Vivian ( Eisa Davis ) . However , when Vivian suddenly dies of a heart attack Doug is very upset and sadder still ; and he suffers in silence because he does n't know that Lois knew about him and Vivian for quite some while already.Doug goes to a business convention in New Orleans ; and being still upset about Vivian 's death ( he had wanted to take her there for her birthday ) and also feeling out of place in a city very different from where he lives with his wife , Doug leaves the convention early one day and wanders into a strip joint where he meets an underage call girl who goes by several different names including Mallory ( Kristen Stewart of `` Twilight '' fame ) . Doug and Mallory begin a most unconventional relationship ; she reminds Doug of his daughter . So , what does Doug do ? He phones Lois to tell her he 's staying in New Orleans indefinitely without giving Lois any reason ; he moves in with Mallory paying her $ 100 a day to stay with her in her very rundown apartment in a home that was abandoned after Hurricane Katrina and Doug tries desperately to get Mallory to grow up with a combination of love and confrontation that Mallory needs.Meanwhile , Lois decides to finally leave their home after nearly eight years of staying indoors -- she 's determined to drive to New Orleans and find Doug there by calling him on his cell phone . Of course , the rest of what transpires gives us a very solid story line and some fine entertainment.I could tell you more ; but there wo n't be any spoilers here even though it may seem like I 've told you much too much already ! Suffice it to say the rest of the plot should hold your attention very well . In addition , look for very good performances by Tiffany Coty as Tara and Lance E. Nichols in an all-too-brief appearance as Hamilton 'Ham ' Watkins , another businessman at the convention.The DVD also comes with an extra about the making of the film.I recommend this film for anyone interested in gritty family drama or drama in general ; and of course fans of the actors in this movie would do well to add this to their collections .