The 1922 `` Prisoner of Zenda '' is surely one of the best silent films ever made . Its major actors knew better than to over-emote and it obviously had a very competent director in Rex Ingram . Even though the plot , costumes , and scenery are straight out of an operetta , the players mostly come off as natural , demonstrating that good acting was not something that somehow emerged with the advent of sound . Even Ramon Navarro as the villainous Rupert of Hentzau shows himself to be far more than just a pretty face as he turns his role into a droll , animated tour de force.The picture begins in the manor house of Englishman Rudolph Rassendyll , the camera zeroing in on the extremely beautiful eyes of Lewis Stone , by now a 43-year-old stage veteran who , in most other respects , looks like a rather ordinary middle-aged man in trim physical condition . But , of course , there is nothing ordinary about Stone 's histrionic talent and , besides , he has all the charm that made him so beloved as Judge Hardy about 15 years later in the `` Andy Hardy '' series . Rassendyll decides to attend the coronation of his cousin , Rudolph of Ruritania , [ whose twin he could be ] and finds his kinsman to be a dissipated mess . Lewis Stone plays both parts , needless to say . The weak king-to-be has an ambitious but evil brother , Duke Michael , who plots to seize the throne for himself and kill Rudolph in the process . On the eve before the coronation , the duke arranges for his brother to be drugged so that he will not be in any shape to attend the ceremony . Therefore , the king 's loyalists persuade the British Rassendyll to take his place for a day and keep Michael from having his way.The Ruritarian Rudolph has a beautiful fiancee played by the luminous Alice Terry . The couple do not have much use for one another but she is a popular princess who would serve to bolster Rudolph 's own shaky position . However , Rassendyll and the lovely girl take to one another at once and , sensing an unexpected change in her intended , the princess no longer sees her role as future queen as a mere duty . Of course , the plot thickens and there is another female involved , played by the alluring but less natural actress , Barbara La Marr . Rudolph Rassendyll can not go home to England after the coronation but must stay on in order to help rescue his endangered royal cousin . There is skull-duggery aplenty and sword-play , too . All make for a fascinating film and it is quite a revelation to see how effective a younger , doe-eyed version of old Judge Hardy is in the love scenes . Pretty sexy ! It is probably no accident that the actor who played the dual role in the next `` Prisoner of Zenda '' , Ronald Colman , resembled Lewis Stone quite a lot .