The reviewer who has it dead-on right in these pages is the one who calls out the fact that Jonathan Larson conceived 'Rent ' as more opera ( using 'La Boheme ' as inspiration ) , not a musical . And what that means is the the connecting dialogue is sung in stage-voice , not chatted as dialogue . So , to see Jesse L. Martin forced to speak dialogue like `` I rewired the ATM at the Food Emporium '' when you know it 's killing him not to sing it and it 's equally killing every Rent fan to hear him constrained to simply mouthing the words ... well , it 's a major flaw because it deals major blows to the flow and energy of Larson 's work.Other concerns : * The first-half of the play is re-staged pretty much shot-by-shot . Then , bizarrely ( given the fidelity in the first half ) , the second half veers wildly from the original . Director Columbus wastes too much time staging `` Take Me or Leave Me '' in a way not intended . Fun , no doubt , but the additional 5 - 10 minutes he tacks on here could have been used to keep the deleted scenes intact . * The deleted scenes are n't trvial matters - 'Rent ' is a hard story to follow for the unitiated . Each one of those scenes could have helped explain the the storyline . * Surely one of the reasons to prop up `` Take Me or Leave Me '' was to get more Idina Menzel in there . [ Menzel ( the original Elephaba in `` Wicked '' and the original Maureen here ) has ascended to Broadway royalty , so who can blame Columbus ? ] But , if so , why leave out 'Happy New Year ? ' which features a goodly amount of Maureen ? * The deleted scenes end up de-emphasizing Anthony Rapp 's Mark , which is unfortunate because he 's the voice and connective thread in the play . Leaving out his '3D IMAX of my mind ... that 's poetic ... that 's pathetic ' number is a major ommission , both to Rapp as an actor and to anyone trying to follow the movie - this is the key piece that puts things into perspective for the viewer time-wise . Why else would Larson strain to put lines in Rapp 's monologue like `` Christmas ... Christmas Eve last year '' He 's framing the scenes for us.This would be a three-star review , but I 'll go for four because of the redeeming nature of the nice documentary about the Larson family - this is very powerful stuff . It 's obvious the family is still hurting deeply 10 years after their loss .