This workout was great . I completed it about 15 minutes ago and I can definitely feel it right now . The workout is broken into 5 10-minute segments which is a format that I love as it means you can break it down for a shorter workout and even if you do the whole thing is does n't feel like an eternity because of the changing segments . The general idea is to do strengthening exercises followed by stretches to lengthen the muscles.Overview of the segments : Arms : this was probably my least favorite segment . I prefer the arms segment on 10 minute solutions pilates perfect body . It was about 6-7 minutes of arms work and then 3-4 of stretching the arms . It felt rushed and the cueing seemed a little off . Also , I just did n't find it very hard . For this segment you need light handweights.Thighs : this segment was excellent . They claim you need a chair to do these excercises however if you have reasonably strong thighs and good balance it 's not necessary . These exercises make you feel your thighs , mine started shaking like crazy at one point and are really effective.Glutes : I think this was the hardest segment on the DVD . I really like that they had a segment devoted especially to glutes , a lot of video through them in with thighs and I do n't think they work very hard . In this segment you 're glutes will work hard , and a chair is an absolute necessity . I had to take several breaks during it but am looking forward to working up to the full segment.Abs : I 'm glad this segment was short because although it was good work for the abs it was a bit boring . You put your feet up on the wall and hold yourself in a sit-up position ( do n't think this sounds hard ? neither did I but try doing it for about 8 minutes ) and then do variations from there . Not my favorite ab workout but effective , I definitely felt my abs straining.Stretch : I really like it when DVDs have a specific long segment devoted to stretching . That said , this was not my favorite stretching segment . I wish the stretches had been held a little less long and there had been more different stretches . It ended and I still felt the need to do some other stretches to really feel stretched out . But the stretches they did were good , and there 's something to be said for holding them for so long and really makin your body relax into the stretch.Overall , I definitely recommend purchasing this video . It 's a really effective workout and I certainly liked all the segments enough to continue doing them even if they were n't my favorite . Also I really liked that they had two instructors , a man and a woman , and showed simpler variations of many of the moves , including when it was best to rest if you needed it . One con I have n't mentioned yet ( and this is a personal preference thing ) is that the instruction is voice-over which is not my favorite and I sometimes felt like the cueing was not right on . Final thought : For $ 15 worth it !