La Bamba is my favorite movie of all time hands down . Of all the films I have seen not many reached me the way La Bamba did . I first saw this movie back in the summer of 96 when I was 17-years old and I fell in love with this movie and also became a big fan of Ritchie Valens . No joke I would watch this movie every single day it was on . La Bamba was a staple part of HBO 's line up and even if it was on twice a day I would watch it . For me , each time I saw the movie it felt like the first time . I would drive my friends crazy with having to watch it even after I recorded the movie they figured I would n't watch it as much , but I still did.At the time I was actually learning the guitar and I never really played at all and this movie inspired me to actually practice and not only that , but it also inspired me on wanting to be a filmmaker . I really ca n't think of any other movie that reached me on this deep of a level . Like I said in the opening of my review La Bamba is hands down my favorite movie of all time . For starters it has some truly great music ; La Bamba is about having a dream and not letting anyone stop you from reaching that dream . It 's about love and family.The screenplay by Luis Valdez was excellent ; the characters are great and each of the main players all add to the movie . None of the characters are just there . Each character plays a crucial part of the movie . While yes the story does revolve around Ritchie played amazingly by Lou Diamond Phillips , but in many ways movie is actually Bob 's story played by Esai Morales who pretty much steals the show . There is a bond between the 2 brothers , but there is also tension . Bob is always in Ritchie 's shadow despite being older and I was really able to relate more to Bob in many ways than Ritchie . Ritchie was sort of the Golden Boy , while Bob was sort of the outsider.I think at some point in our lives we have felt like we were in someone 's shadow , either it be a friend , family member or co-worker . The more Ritchie finds success the more Bob falls into this despair as all the attention goes to Ritchie and he 's sort of forgotten about . The movie may revolve around Ritchie , but it 's very much Bob 's story . And Esai Morales gives a terrific performance . La Bamba is about going for your dreams and not letting anyone stop you from reaching them . We all have dreams in life and most of us are too afraid to try and make them come true . Ritchie had a dream in life and would n't let anything keep him from that and I hold that close . La Bamba gave me and still gives me the courage to go after my own filmmaking dreams.As director Luis Valdez creates some truly touching scenes and some truly inspiring moments . When making a Bio-picture normally certain parts are played up more for dramatic effect and Valdez does that here , but it works well . A lot of the scenes with tension between Bob and Ritchie comes from real life and comes from the own personal experience between Luis Valdez and his own brother . The love story between Ritchie and Donna played by Danielle von Zerneck are possibly the strongest scenes of the movie and shows a time of innocence.Prior to this movie I knew who Ritchie Valens was and I knew his music , but I would n't be able to place the music with the artist . All the music in the movie that Ritchie sings is performed by Los Lobos who did justice to the original music , but I sought out the original versions by Ritchie and loved it . On my guitar I used to play Donna , Come on Let 's Go and La Bamba non-stop . Nothing can top the opening lick in La Bamba.Lou Diamond Phillips made his screen debut , but if not mistaken he actually shot Stand and Deliver first , but this one came out first . Lou Diamond gives a performance of a lifetime . His performance is so real and inspiring . I would rate this performance as one of my all time favorites . By the time I saw La Bamba I was already a fan of Lou Diamond , but this movie made him one of my very favorite actors of all time . Esai Morales though pretty much steals the show like I stated before . Rosanna DeSoto as Connie , Ritchie 's mother is excellent and Joey Pantoliano as Ritchie 's manager is excellent , but Joey Pants always delivers . Elizabeth Pena also gives a good performance as Ritchie 's ex-girlfriend who is now with Bob , which creates some uneasy tension.I 'll be the first to admit the final act always gets me teary-eyed . The death of Ritchie and Buddy Holly and The Big Bopper was so tragic . Buddy Holly is one of my all time favorite musicians . When Ritchie 's family and friends hear the news over the radio it 's just so tragic . Sleepwalk , played by Santo & Johnny is so hauntingly beautiful and really adds to the scene ; Bob walking across a wooded bridge and stops and screams Ritchie 's name never fails to give me the chills.La Bamba is truly a great and uplifting movie that is really tragic , but again very uplifting . Ritchie was only 17-years old when he died and I remember being freaked out since I was that very age when I first saw the movie . At that age death is n't something we think about and it was quite creepy . This may be clich & eacute ; d , but Ritchie may be gone , but his music and impact will never be forgotten . His life inspired this movie and this movie inspired me.Without a doubt La Bamba is my very favorite movie nothing for me comes close . I can watch this movie everyday and never once get tired of it . Each time I see the movie it feels like the first time .