First of all , I highly recommend the review below , by the guy named `` Sideburns . '' I think he captures the factual basis and spirit for this film . I can understand how some who are `` Australia-philes '' might want to see a purely Aussie product , and this is not that . It 's not `` Smash Palace '' or many other fine Aussie films of that genre . What this film is , can be described in one word : WEIRD.That 's a good thing.The genius of Eric Roberts used to be ( and may still be again ) , his ability to seemingly lose himself in his roles , and do so while lacking any self-consciousness about how he comes across . To see this film and then see other excellent ( and weird ) films , including `` The Pope of Greenwich Village '' and `` Runaway Train , '' is to see a career arc that was pretty amazing . He seemed to get into serious films with major talent around him , and then be able to carry-off demanding roles ( albeit , some similar , sure ) , with energy and command.Okay , onto this film . First of all , let 's be honest , this is not a deep film . It 's not meant to be . It is almost like an indie verson of a Farrely brothers film , at least their early ones , where they do n't mind taking risks and also having fun . There 's also a nice romantic subtext they had ( `` Kingpin '' - believe it or not , `` Me , Myself & Irene '' ) where , in a ridiculous way , they reflect what 's in a good majority of people who are either searching for love , or just searching for something in themselves , and they find it reflected or - in the case of the main characters in the Farrely films , and definitely in `` Coca Cola Kid , '' abbetted by others . I 'm not saying Woody Harrelson or Jim Carrey could 've been the Coca Cola Kid , but what they all have in common , in the specific roles they played in these films , is to make one wonder if anyone would or could find anything remotely interesting about them in a romantic way . They are so completely un-indearing , it seems almost cartoonish - and then one just thinks of many people we all know , and it 's not that unbelieavable.The music in the film alone is just fantastic . The Coca Cola jingle Robert 's character commissions is incredible , and it 's punctuated by this aboriginal guy who is playing his device - a guy Roberts finds outside the Coca Cola local offices , and promptly drafts into service . It 's just really funny to see The Kid 's mind work - marketing wheels a'spinnin ' as he devises and employs his strategies . Everyone on both sides is equally mocked , and that makes for a really fine , mostly non-judgemental film ( rare these days , eh ? ) .There are other nice touches in the soundtrack andalso , I 'd be remiss , not to mention NUTS , if I avoided the very nice scene of Greta Scaatchi where she 's freshening up ... well , go see the film ! It 's quirky , it 's revealing , and a lot of fun . It also does a great job of discussing culture clashes , where , when everyone is harmless , you can see how progress comes out of a some dissension , yet still wonder if we 're losing a little something in the translation . If that 's vague , so 's the film in some ways , and I think that is precisely what the director was going for . It does n't all have to fit perfectly . A lot does n't , and that makes it kind of seem real .