COME EARLY MORNINGHave you ever seen a movie and thought to yourself afterward that `` man that real '' , but not like a documentary but just a piece of cinema that looks like it was plucked out of real life . If you have ever felt that way then chances are that you were watching this one right here . `` Come Early Morning '' is a wonderful little film done marvelously by Joey Lauren Adams of `` Chasing Amy '' fame and starring the great Ashley Judd and of course Jeffrey Donovan . This honestly feels like cameras were set up all around a town and this is what was captured , it feels real.The film follows Lucy Fowler { Judd } on her journey through her thirties waking up every morning next to one useless guy after another . She also is dealing with a father that she is trying desperately to spend time with even though it seems he could care less . So the story goes she is a desperate and confused woman who is only looking for love and acceptance . Of course you could say that her problems with men steams from her estranged relationship with her father . Still she ends up meeting at least one decent guy named Cal Percell { played excellently by Donovan } who seems that he wants a relationship with her despite her problem . It is this relationship here that is the driving force of the film although the time spent with her father and room mate also add interesting dynamics . The great thing about all this is how it all ends.Writer/director Adams proves that all that time spent with Kevin Smith paid off because this is a wonderful debut film . Her direction is excellent but it is her writing that really makes this film so good . Like I said this has to be one of the realest movies I have seen in a while . I like the fact that she did n't romanticize the lead character and her problems , things do not end up like you want them to . This movie has an ending that is probably what would actually happen , how great is that ? Even those that have not grown up in a small town can relate to the things going on in this movie.Ashley Judd of course is brilliant as the lost thirty something year old that is trying to find her way . And you know that Jeffery Donovan is excellent as the guy that should have been the one for her . Laura Prepon of `` That 70 's Show '' fame is just as good as Judd 's room mate and best friend , she even finds love . Also Scott Wilson is brilliant as her finding religion father who seems as out of it as she does . As a matter of fact the entire cast is great and deserves all the credit in the world . Aside from that the film was also shot very well and for such a limited budget it seems like the movie showed the entire town even though it didn't.I would have to say that this is one of the better movies that has come out in a while , and a wonderful debut for a filmmaker . To those who have seem this I say spread the word and review it now . And for those who have yet to see I recommend this as a purchase but I guess you can try a rental . This is a wonderful film with a great cast with real problems that all should be able to relate to . I would love to go about this film but all can come up with is see it , if it is n't your thing that 's ok , but for those who like these types of films you will highly enjoy this .