I saw this film about a month ago at the local cinematheque . About eighty minutes into it I discretely looked at my watch and was dismayed by the realization that the movie was n't even half over . Celine and Julie go boating ? There had n't been a body of water , let alone a boat , in sight thus far . Where was this bizarre story with scenes being repeated over and over again going , and when was it going to end ? I 'm a patient film viewer but this was too much . A number of film critics , whose opinions I usually respect , have practically built religions around their appreciation of this film . I asked myself if this could just be a case of the `` emperor 's new clothes '' ? Almost two hours later it was over and I emerged from the theatre thinking I could have seen two real cinematic masterpieces in the time I 'd wasted on Rivette 's film ... But somehow it was n't really over . The effect of the film lingered . It was n't just some intellectual riddle I needed to grapple with , the film had got under my skin . Scenes kept replaying themselves in my head like a strange dream . Their rhythm was unlike anything I 'd encountered before . Celine and Julie just never conformed to any of my expectations - and neither had Jacques Rivette . In two separate scenes in the film Celine and Julie each present themselves to men , who unwittingly think they are meeting the other woman . In each case the two women completely subvert the men 's worlds , playfully poking holes in their rigid conventionality . Through the whole film , Rivette was doing the same thing with me . Everything about the film , from its `` plot '' to its subtle manipulation of reality to its pacing forces you to let go of your expectations ( or be miserable trying to hold on to them ) . You have to relate to the film on its own level , like you might with a child . Only then can you enjoy it . I do n't exactly know why the film had such an effect on me but it says something about its power that over a month later I 'm still thinking about it.In the last few days I 've had this growing urge to see `` Celine and Julie Go Boating '' again . The ideal circumstance for a first encounter with it is definitely in a theatre or you might just end up turning it off . Now that I 've crossed that Rubicon I wish it was available on a region 0 or 1 DVD so I could waste another three plus hours .