While 1952 's `` Singin ' in the Rain '' is definitely the more accomplished musical film , I think this buoyant 1949 classic best typifies what MGM produced during Hollywood 's golden era when talents were at their peak . Co-directed by Gene Kelly and a 25-year old Stanley Donen in his feature film directing debut , the movie has a consistently propulsive energy thanks mainly to the remarkable choreography by Kelly and Donen , the seamless blend of Leonard Bernstein 's familiar music with studio tunesmith Roger Edens ' original compositions , and the sheer ebullience of the performers.Written by the estimable team of Betty Comden and Adolph Green , the threadbare plot is simply about three sailors - Gabey , Chip and Ozzie - on a 24-hour leave in New York City and the women they meet and romance . Based on a subway poster , womanizing Gabey falls for Miss Turnstiles and spends his time searching for her . Phobia-ridden Ozzie finds romance with anthropology student Claire , while timid Chip is focused on sightseeing in spite of the persistent attentions of aggressive lady cab driver Hildy . The closest the story comes to dramatic tension is in the deceptions around Miss Turnstiles , who is not the big-time celebrity Gabey assumes she is but an aspiring ballerina named Ivy , who has to work nights as an exotic dancer in Coney Island.The film is obviously at its best when it 's focused on the musical sequences - beginning with the actual locations used for `` New York , New York '' in establishing the sailors ' energetic arrival , continuing with the elaborate `` Prehistoric Man '' number at the Museum of Natural History and bouncing through the title tune ensemble with all six principals singing and dancing their way down from atop the Empire State Building . Everyone gets a chance to shine , though as Gabey , Gene Kelly clearly dominates with his graceful athleticism . As Chip , an overshadowed Frank Sinatra mainly gets to sing to Betty Garrett , who admirably contains her brassiness as Hildy.Though hardly believable as an academic type , Ann Miller gets to tap impressively during `` Prehistoric Man '' , and rubber-faced Jules Munshin provides mostly comedy relief as Ozzie . When dancing rather than acting to deceive Gabey , Vera-Ellen dazzles as Ivy from the fantasy-laden `` Miss Turnstiles Ballet '' to her superb duets with Kelly on `` Main Street '' and `` A Day in New York Ballet '' . The only sour note is the patronizing attitude toward Hildy 's squawk-voiced roommate Lucy ( played with gumption by the original Gladys Kravitz from `` Bewitched '' , Alice Pearce ) . Harold Rosson 's color-saturated cinematography has been maintained quite well in the print transfer on the 2000 DVD , though the only extra is the now-battered theatrical trailer .