The trouble with Rent is that most people see it for the surface plot , and take it as a musical about people with AIDS . In fact , for some of the most die-hard fans , it took a few listens and years of letting the lyrics sink in to understand the message behind the story . It 's not a musical about AIDS ; it 's a musical about people learning to live life in the moment -- live for today -- and find happiness instead of dwelling in regret and indecision . Any artist knows this feeling , and that 's perhaps why so many fans are other struggling artists while people who are `` mainstream '' or professional do n't find a connection with the story or its characters.While the character relationships are inspired by the characters in La Boheme , the lyrics and the heart of this story are rooted in social issues that its creator dealt with ; in struggling for his art , for his career , and while watching many of the people around him die . Today we live in a society where having AIDS is n't so much of a death sentence with the proper care and medication ... but in 1989 , the first generations who had contracted it earlier and were now reaching the end of their lifespan were dealing with a much different life , involving a lot of confusion , fear , and regret . The point is not that all of these people have AIDS ; if you actually take the time to hear the words as a message and a lesson to learn , what you receive is very profound and eye-opening . In fact , only 4 of the 8 main characters are ill. No one complained that La Boheme , the world 's most beloved opera , was about a bunch of people complaining about the plague ; perhaps because it 's easier to listen to people dwell on something we 're not afraid of anymore . AIDS makes people uncomfortable.Contrary to the opinions of some viewers who feel that the costumes and sets and characters are cliche and almost caricature in nature ... perhaps these people do n't LIVE the life depicted in the musical . After all , shows like Jesus Christ Superstar are just as ridiculous to me because of my religious beliefs -- or lack thereof -- and so one ca n't expect me to share the same appreciation for something I do n't understand . However , the people who do adore the musical will tell you that they also dressed that way and lived that way and that we are NOT caricatures to be made fun of . I DID dress like that . I WAS stared at by those who were conservative ... but there are two kinds of audiences : those who look for entertainment value and those who appreciate the poetry and the symbolism . After all , with the exception of Chicago , I loathe flashy , dancy musicals because I find them unrealistic and cheesy . But that 's just ME.To say that this is clearly an amalgamation of stereotypes by a creator who did n't understand his material is utterly ridiculous if you take the time to read about Jonathan Larson and his life ; especially what inspired him to write this musical in the first place . To suggest that he was some big shot who thought it might be cute to write about this subject material without firsthand experience ... well ... maybe it is the reviewers who follow the stereotypes . It is Mr. Larson who is also rolling in his grave.What I WILL say about the Rent movie is that it stinks . I was a Renthead who saw it every weekend during its run . Call me crazy -- in retrospect I know it sounds lame -- but you also have to consider that some people go to church every week to reaffirm their belief system , while Rent taught me to appreciate life and where I am , regardless of the hardships . To accept who I am and where I 'm going without fear . To trust in risk and not feel so obligated to follow the rigid , conservative structure we 're pressured to comply with because of judgment and conformity . In the end , as long as I love what I do and surround myself in people I love , happiness is with me . That was a lesson worth every single one of those weekends ... and it 's clearly not what the opposition got from this musical , but it just goes to show you that there is something deeper than what 's on the surface . And that 's a legitimate response . Some people do n't think they should have to get to know the show first , or spend more than one sitting in order to appreciate it . Some people expect it to be laid out for them , to see a show and go home . If you 're expecting that , this is n't the kind of theatre you should see . It deals with many issues , from battling with your pursuit of your art versus `` the real world '' , family obligations , love triangles , illness , inability to let people into your heart ... all issues some of know quite well all our lives . For the right person , it can be a very thought-provoking and life-changing experience with an important message.But it was a message that did not come through when Hollywood tried to take control of the project . Fans and newbies alike either love or hate this film , and I am thoroughly disappointed with it , despite the nostalgia of the ( mostly ) original cast members . I just happened to see a new Rent movie this evening : the final Broadway performance -- filmed live on stage -- and I am finally satisfied that I have seen a proper Rent movie . THAT is the movie I would recommend for someone wanting to experience the musical as it should be . Even *I* found the Hollywood characters flat and hollow , but perhaps it 's not a story for this kind of film , or perhaps the cut material made more of a difference than they anticipated . Either way ... there is not `` rap '' song . I do n't know WHAT that reviewer is talking about . There are some weaker pieces -- which happens with musicals -- but the ones that snagged the followers are the ones with a message about acceptance , love , and living for the moment.Ultimately , audiences either love or hate Rent , and the response is pretty predictable depending on where you came from , how creative you are , and the kind of social outlook you have . And I do n't mean social classes -- I mean just your social circle , career path , or view of city life . This musical is n't for everyone , that 's for sure . But just because you did n't share our experiences does n't make it bad or inaccurate ; it just means you do n't sympathize because it 's not a story you relate to .