It 's my own fault that I had higher expectations of this film , but I 'm guessing that this movie was not exactly made for guys like me anyway . The acting is ok , Matthew McConaughey 's character Ben and Kate Hudson 's Andie really just have to act and react . The dialog does n't matter . Kate Hudson 's character always has the upperhand , which is fine for a while , but after an hour it gets tiring . She completely invades every aspect of Ben 's life ; we never even see Andie 's world besides her two friends and workplace . So while both characters have a similar agenda , there is a complete imbalance of upperhandedness , and this to me is the film 's greatest shortcoming . He puts up with all her attempts in 'losing him ' , but all this only produces frustration in Andie - and fuels her to do crazier things . As a viewer you 're dying to see her fall on her face just once . But that 's wishful thinking . Ben 's resilience to Andie 's antics barely entertains me , and Andie 's total lack of shame does not endear her to me . Sure they both look great , and Hudson positively beams when she smiles , but man , 112 minutes is a long time to endure this game . I can imagine some people thinking this movie is great . Girl Power and all . I do n't know . But I think we can agree the movie was conceived as a vehicle for Kate Hudson 's rise to stardom . This movie reminds me a bit of WHAT WOMEN WANT ( with Mel Gibson ) for a variety of reasons but notably because it was written & produced by women - which in the male-dominated movie world is a much needed perspective - but Nancy Myers ( the producer/director of What Women Want ) is definitely a lot smarter than the 'brains ' behind How To Lose A Guy in 10 Days . You only have to watch the DVD extras to see proof of this . We meet two of the producers , both of whom have obviously had facelifts . I 'm serious . It 's creepy . They talk about the material like it 's Shakespeare . Then there is the director Donald Petrie , who totally lacks any charisma whatsoever . The MAKING OF with him is so cheaply done it 's probably funnier to watch than most of the movie . While he sits there chatting , a TV monitor behind him fires off stills from the film , and a female office clerk ( with her back to the camera ) stares at a static PC screen while biting her nails and shaking her head a lot . She does this for the entire duration of the interviews with Petrie . Oh , and did I mention the background music that accompanies the extras ? It 's department store music . Or elevator music . Which ever one you hate more.I did n't bother with the commentary . Donald is a bore.There are no outtakes , which is by now unusual for a comedy.The deleted scenes are actually good , some honest emotions are shown by Andie and we get a few more calm private moments between the two leads . Look , it started off ok . It felt like it would be harmless fluffy romantic comedy , but the romance lasted about 10 minutes . I can sum up my review with this observation of director Petrie 's reason he became interested in directing the movie . He says it was because he found out that Kate Hudson was attached to it . Aha . So basically , if the movie does well at the box office , then it will launch Hudson 's AND his career . Sorry Petrie , but that 's not good enough for me .