This 30th Anniversary Edition takes the original Night of the Living Dead movie and throws in a new soundtrack and new scenes . As far as I was concerned , the original movie was perfect as is and this was unnecessary , however I decided to be openminded and give this edition a chance considering that the new material was written by John Russo ( who co-wrote the original movie ) , and has photography ( and acting ) by Hinzman ( who also helped create the original ) . I was completely let down.The new scenes include a new introduction , miscellaneous scenes of zombies marching and getting killed by rednecks , and a new epilogue . The miscellaneous scenes sometimes interfere with the flow of the movie , the makeup is less effective , and some of the new extras are terrible . They do a half decent job of editing in the new scenes , but they are still noticeable ( for example , the fashions are not quite right ) . The new introduction and epilogue are ridiculous . The intro merely establishes that the lead zombie ( played by Hinzman ) was a criminal when alive . This takes away from one of the films most effective elements : that the zombies could be your next door neighbour or a close friend or relative , but they will still mindlessly try to kill you . Hinzman is obviously older in the frontal shots ( the profiles are okay ) . When he starts attacking two gravediggers , one of the `` actors '' begins running away then realizes Hinzman was supposed to grab him first , so he actually goes back to the coffin and leans down so Hinzman can grab him ! ! ! The fact they did n't do a second take shows a lack of care.The epilogue is a `` one year later '' interview with an insane hellfire and brimstone preacher who survived the carnage . It is stuck in the middle ( spoiler warning ) of the scene of Duane Jones being killed and the ending credits showing the rednecks disposing of his body ! ! Talk about interfering with a very effective ending ! You do have the option to watch the original cut ( on an excellent print ) , but you can only watch it with the new soundtrack ! The old soundtrack was made up of library music , but it worked excellently . At best , the new soundtrack is mediocre . Sometimes it does n't even fit the mood of the scene , for example being frantic when the action is more sedate and depressive.The booklet contains interviews mostly consisting of the actors talking about how `` flawlessy '' the new scenes were added and how old fans will love the new version ( wrong ) . There is a fun commentary track , but you get the same people ( plus others , including Romero ) giving the same info on the commentary tracks in the far superior Elite Millennium Edition .