The problem w/New Moon is that it takes itself too seriously while giving the audience plenty of reasons to consider it a joke.I try not to read too much into movies , and I believe that individuals are responsible for their own actions , but I agree that this movie has influence on young girls , and yep , older women as well . I was in junior high once , and a lot of the dialog resembled what I remembered hearing btwn boyfriends and girlfriends . You know , back in the day when you had a major crush and they were the love of your life ? Then 3 weeks later , you BOTH move on to another `` love of your life . '' That 's how the dialog sounds . It 's cheesy , overdone , and I feel sorry for the teens who thinks this is what it should be . Edward and Bella have an obsessive and codependent relationship . Dumped by a vampire so you 're feeling suicidal ? Really ? If you take out the vampire stuff , everything else is still wrong . Bella is a mopey , emotionless , humorless , goalless , utterly empty of personality shell of a girl . It 's really hard to understand why either of these guys find her attractive . What does she do ? For herself or anybody ? She 's a major drag and she treats her dad like crap . It 's just not credible that two guys are willing to die ( one again ) for her . She offers nothing in return . She gets dumped by Ed and just eats up the attention Jacob pays her w/no intention of ever reciprocating his feelings . We call that leading . Everything is about her to the max . What I found particularly amusing is that she asks Jacob if he could just STOP being a wolf ... yet this same girl would never ask that of Edward . It makes no sense . Lautner did the best acting of the three , and made me feel for Jake . I read the Wiki page for the Breaking Dawn book and the outcome for his character sounds like a movie recipe for disaster . At this point , producers need to stop leading the little girls on . He honestly saved the movie . As an adult , I can only handle so much teen angst and the fact that he cracked a few smiles kept me from turning it off.When the werewolf first emerged from the woods before chasing Victoria , OK yes , I thought it was a bear . But even still , the werewolf scenes were the best parts . The vamp makeup was terrible and the contacts were distracting . Pattinson was better in the first movie . Stewart was the same non-entity . She was so unrelatable . Even if not in the dialog , mannerisms , facial expressions , and actions can convey so much about a character . It 's hard to believe that Bella is not a robot . Even on the dvd cover , she just does n't try . Compared to both male leads . Actors should be able to sell their characters ' motivations . Stanley in ` Streetcar ' was utterly reprehensible , but Brando sold it . Stewart does not , and therefore Bella comes off as one of the most undeserving `` heroines '' to ever hit the screen.Ugh , I 'm gon na stop here .