You 'd think Hollywood would have no problem making a movie about Hollywood . Think again . True , there have been some great pictures in which Hollywood looks at itself . The oldest one I can think of is 1937 's A Star is Born , which was remade as an even better movie in 1954 . 1950 's Sunset Boulevard is one of the greatest movies ever made , and a few years later came Singin ' in the Rain , a classic musical . Yet , over the years , the industry has produced more bad movies about itself than good ones . America 's Sweethearts falls somewhere in-between . Its beginning is quite promising , but it falters and goes downhill after that . Lee [ Billy Crystal ] is a Hollywood press agent with big problems . His boss , Dave [ Stanley Tucci ] , needs him to promote the newest move starring Gwen Harrison and Eddie Thomas [ Catherine Zeta-Jones and John Cusack ] . The pair used to be the hottest , most popular married couple in America , and the public flocked to see their movies . Now that they are on the verge of divorce and ca n't stand the sight of each other , they are boxoffice poison . Lee must figure out a way to convince the press that Gwen and Eddie are getting back together without letting the two stars know what he is up to . He enlists the aid of Gwen 's sister , Kiki [ Julia Roberts ] , who not only resents the way Gwen orders her around but is also secretly in love with Eddie . Then there is the problem of the movie itself . All the studio has seen of it is the opening credits . The director [ Christopher Walken ] does n't want to show it until he 's made some changes . These modifications will result in a movie quite unlike the one the studio paid 86 million dollars to make . Reading the above synopsis makes me see how funny and insightful America 's Sweethearts might have been . The plot leaves ample room for both farce and satire , but the writers did n't take advantage of the opportunity . Instead of being bright , brittle and insightful , the story is instead cute , cloying and tame . Most of the chances for Hollywood to laugh at itself are wasted . So is Julia Roberts . As much as I have finally come to respect her , I just do n't think she 's right in a plain-Jane role . Also , she has done the ugly duckling into a swan routine too many times before . The movie is primarily a vanity project for Billy Crystal , who also produced it , and for director Joe Roth , who used it to launch his new company , Revolution Studios . They probably were afraid to upset the Hollywood establishment , of which they are a part , too much . If your mind wanders while watching a movie , it usually means it is n't grabbing you . There are several scenes in America 's Sweethearts where a character says something and everyone in the room gasps . I started thinking about this . In my entire life , I have never known anyone ever to say anything that made all the listeners gasp , and I 've known some pretty racy people . This is something that happens only in the movies . Then , I started to list in my head of other things you see only on celluloid . Before I knew it , the movie was over .