While the 2006 Le Mans DVD is similar to previous incarnations , the extremely poor video quality due to a large amount of distortion and pixelation , definitely makes this the worst of the Le Mans DVDs.Content-wise it 's the same stuff : Plenty of testing and qualifying highlights with a little more than an hour devoted to the actual race itself . However , the poor picture quality makes this DVD seem almost like a VHS tape . The distortion and pixelation , at times , is hideous and it really draws away from the pleasure of watching the race . If you compare this DVD side-by-side with Le Mans DVDs covering the 2002 and 2003 races , the 2006 edition is definitely worse.Another complaint is that the DVD covers testing and qualifying highlights twice -- adding plenty of repetition to the DVD 's 140-minute run time . This has been an ongoing habit for the producers of this series , who crammed in this highlight show that originally aired on SPEED channel prior to its live Le Mans race coverage . This preview show , which takes a little more than an hour to cover testing and qualifying , leads into the real start of the DVD , which then goes right back into more testing and qualifying highlights.The lack of special features and in-car cameras is another disappointment . In the 2005 DVD , the producers included special feature in-car cameras for the first time ( even though the DVD had some slight pixelation problems ) . In the 2006 version , there are no special features and the in-car camera footage is no more than a couple of seconds for each car it shows . It would have been great if there was a full , in-car lap onboard the Audi R10 Turbo Diesel.Overall , I would still recommend this DVD to any avid Le Mans fan since it is the best record of a race which saw Audi triumph with a diesel-engined car for the first time in the race 's 74-year history . It also does a good job showing all of the race action and all of the drama and glamour that makes up the annual festival of endurance on the Circuit de la Sarthe . It 's just disappointing that the picture quality is so poor .