If I have n't said this before I 'll say it again , I 'm a huge fan of George A. Romero 's Night Of The Living Dead and his sequels he 's done for the past forty years . Thanks to him , we truly know the horrific world of Zombies and the Undead with great detail and know what a frightning place it can be trapped within , be it an old farmhouse , a suburban mall , underground bunker , or anyplace that leaves you open for an attack by the flesheaters of the living . Of course once you create such a popular character in Horror you get copycat rip-off 's trying to cash-in on your original creation . Strangely though , most of these types of films have had some varied degrees of success , most notably the Italian Zombi filmakers of the 1980 's . Unfortunately though , the one that started it all , 1968 's NOTLD , due to a copyright snafu never got that precious right and soon it came clear to all that anyone could either release it , own it , and/or make any version with that plot and title any way they choose.But first , a little history : back in 1998 Anchor Bay and John A. Russo ( one of the men to help create the '68 original with Romero ) decided to release a 30th Anniversary version of the classic , but instead of just re-releasing the same old print like every other DVD company , shot and added new footage in with the old , creating a new subplot that not only hurts the original film , but betrays the social commentary that was laid down in the first place . A true misstep and the fans were not pleased.However when it came to complete remakes , at least someone got it right even before this . In 1990 , with Romero 's personal guidance and FX genius Tom Savini at the helm , they made a Night Of The Living Dead that stayed close to the original script giving those 90 's audiences an update that not only they could be proud of , but better in some aspects of gore and production values . So after one well-done remake & one learning mistake in what not to do to a classic , could it ever be re-done again ? Apparently not . In 2006 , with director Jeff `` Corman Wanna-Be '' Broadstreet in the chair , they decided to give it a go again , of course without any needed consent by Romero , but this time with a twist : Let 's try to make it in 3D ! 3D ? Really ? Sounds like a curious idea , but it truly falls flat here.To be blunt NOTLD3D is a travesty . Shot on a non-existent budget , this has to be the worse `` reimagining '' of a movie since 2001 's Planet Of The Apes . Sure , most of your favorite characters are here , but this time mixed around and played by actors who are so stiff , it 's hard to tell them from the actual zombies . And the story is so slow and boring that it seems like a 3am viewing of something you 'd expect to see on Sci-Fi Channel . Also , while the gore factor on the '68 original was minimal at best , 36 years later you still do n't see much , if anything at all , but not for MPAA reasons but financial ones , and in fact halfway through it I wondered why was this rated `` R ' in the first place . It 's new plot-twists were lame , the sets boring , and the cameo by newly crowned Horror icon Sid Haig ( who in my opinion is n't that big of a deal in the first place ) is completely unnecessary that only helps in establishing that this was the ultimate in movie cash-ins.So it 's main appeal has to be it 's 3D , right ? Wrong . Instead of using 3D 's latest technology Stereoscopic ( that 's with the `` shades of gray '' ) , they went with the outdated Anaglyphic type ( red/blue ) which in turn turns the entire movie into a purplish-hue mess . And do n't expect anything to `` jump '' out at you . When it does work , and it 's rare , it only gives backgrounds depth , meaning it makes your image look deeper , not closer . Also it should be noted , outside of the behind-the-scenes features , this whole disc is in 3D , meaning that without the glasses , it 's unwatchable . There is NO 2D version on the disc included like it should have been ( that version is released separately ) , so once those glasses go it 's the ultimate coaster.So to sum up , bad movie , bad 3D , bad idea . It was already remade well back in 1990 , and eight years later was already given a gimmick that did n't work either . Even as a movie alone , a rip-off flix like Day Of The Dead 2 : Contagium is a better film . Hard to suggest even if you 're a completist like myself , NOTLD3D is one dead movie that should have stayed buried . ( RedSabbath Rating:3.0/10 )