by Dane Youssef '' Rocky '' and `` Good Will Hunting '' are the best of examples of what happens when out-of-work actors write.In these situations , they can write themselves work . And with some talent , some and a little luck , these unemployable actors are never unemployed again.Nervous nebbish actor Patrick Breen wrote this experimental WAY Off-Off broadway ( so far off , I believe it did n't play in halfway houses ) play `` Just A Kiss '' about how one single event can completely can change not just the lives of the kissers and their significant others , but people outside their little circles.A whole chain reaction . One kiss . Between two people who should n't be kissing . And then hell breaks loose . Not just the kissers and their significant others . But people outside the circle as well.A promising idea even though we have seen it before . One person and one desicion . That 's all it takes.Oddball character actor Fisher Stevens is a friend and collaborator of Breen 's and makes his directorial debut with this experimental film and the often-dubbed `` character actor '' does some experimental character direction here with this one.Perhaps the film is trying to be too many things at once.Maybe the real problem with `` Just A Kiss '' is it takes too many targets . Social commentary on love , life and relationships ( especially in NYC ) . A black comedy . An experiment . A drama . A dramedy , perhaps ? And if that 's not enough , the movie tries too hard to be `` hip '' and `` stylish '' and `` ground-breaking '' with it 's technique . `` JAK , '' which could probably be best described as an `` Anti-romantic comedy . '' What bothers me the most is that it 's not a succesful one . But boy , it sure could have been.Dag ( named after a former U.N. secreatry , who 's a real dog ) is a commercial director who 's dating Halley ( a woman who saved his life ) and living with her.He 's unfaithful quite frequently and seems to be prone to having flings with some of Manhattan 's more mentally ill chicks . It 's a shame Dag ca n't be faithful to Halley because she 's the sanest woman he can come across.Maybe it could have had it been ... less ambitious ? That 's not the right attitude . Sometimes it works . Sometimes it does n't . Should we HATE everybody for trying ? His friend Peter , a commercial actor ( who also wrote this film ) is having relationship trouble with his mentally unbalanced ballerina girlfriend who has a steady habit of cheating on him with everybody , she also has a married man named Andre ( Taye Diggs ) who comes over to sleep with her regularly and HE winds up having sex with Halley and bcomes her boyfriend . Peter has a quick one with Colleen , Andre 's wife.And ... people start dropping and dying pretty quickly . Couples couple up with other people and the body count rises as people kill themselves or each other.But now the problems with the movie : A lot has been made about the film 's use of rotoscoping . An animation technique that was a favorite ( and perhaps partially invented ) of X-rated adult animation pioneer Ralph Bakshi . His `` adult '' cartoons often blended animation with live-action . This movie does the same.Except with a live-action cast who only `` occassionally '' animate and do things that are glossed with cartoon frosting.Why does this movie employ rotomation ? Perhaps because the characters are cartoon characters themselves . They 're so overplayed in a big , broad slapstick sort of way . Imagine Daffy Duck and Bugs Bunny sitting around doing Neil LaBute or Todd Solondz material . It can be cute . For a few seconds . Maybe it 's a metephor . Maybe it 's supposed to mean this movie is more of a metephor than commentary . Or maybe it 's just supposed to be stylish and hip.But it just does n't work here , pure and simple.That is not to say ALL the rotoscoping in the movie is a bad idea . The intro in the title sequence is pretty great . But it just makes the rest of the badness so much more clear.We hear Dag telling a story where he and Peter are in the back of a cab and speeding through NYC . We see rotomation at work outside illuminating the already-lit Manhattan after-hours club scene . Inside , everything is hopping ... and litterally glowing . So are a lot of the people . A woman with a slavic accent screams at a man in a Porsche and makes death threats.Dag moves towards her as the Porsche drives away . Onlookers think it 's a bad idea . Who cares ? She 's vunerable.They have passionante animal sex ( complete with rotomation highlighting visuals ) . The morning after they wake up . She turns out to not have an accent . She 's American . She sobs , I 'm engaged ! Dag just decides they should just forget last night , get her things and show her out the door.Oh , she 's crazy . Right before she takes that step out , she smiles and says ( in a NEW accent ) , `` She does this kind of s*** all the time . '' And we see her eye turn a frightening color . She 's got multiple-crazy . This is a nice touch . Good little montage there , Steve.But unfortunatly , this is n't a movie where they 're satisfied with the little touches.I love how diabolical the soundtrack is . This music is truly inspired . And kind of fitting for this movie , I guess . The thing how the movie is that it 's so promising , it plays out like a notebook of theories and ideas by a first-year philsophy major.The cast is great and than more able to play these characters . But the movie is directed like it 's farce and slapstick when it 's supposed to be serious . It moves at the pace and is styled like an MTV music video -- which is all wrong for this material.One bright spark is Marisa Tomei . Ever since `` My Cousin Vinny , '' she 's been typecast into playing that one role . The sexy , sassy and quick-tempered girlfriend who 's kind of the whole point-of-sanity for her hair-trigger , on-the-edge boyfriend.She got the Oscar for the role . Ever since , she has never been allowed to play another role . But in this movie , she has been granted the opportunity.She plays a mentally unstable and potentially homicidal waitress . She makes small talk with Dag , plays his confidant . She reads fortunes in rings left by cold beer bottles . She reads his . He needs a one-night stand to help him to forget . She throws herself at him . `` Leave your number . '' He does . This only makes things worse in a way I ca n't quite reveal here.There 's one potentially funny `` Seinfeld-ian '' moment as Peter makes a cellular call on a plane right before landing . The radio transmission interfears with the control tower . The plane breaks in half and passengers die . Now that really made me laugh.The tourist class ( business and coach ) all die horribly whereas the first class skitter across the runway and land safely close to the gates . No here is an inspired bit . With a director able to juggle multiple tones a little better , this could 've been a success.But the actual final product plays out like an exercise or a list or experimentation of different cinematic styles . Which , actually , I guess , it is . Steven has always been a character actor , and now he 's a character director . Let 's hop his next character is at least somewhat better.Lets also hope their next collaboration is better . Hell , it 'll be easy to top this one . In the end , it just does n't work . `` Just A Kiss '' ... just is n't enough.danessf @ yahoo.comhttp : //profile.myspace.com/index.cfm ? fuseaction=user.viewprofile & friendid=58175682http : //movies.yahoo.com/mvc/mymovies