I was really looking forward to Disney 's animated epic Dinosaur . After all , it was reportedly eight years and million [ s ] in the making . I do n't know exactly what I expected . Did I I think that the recent explosion in computer graphics technology would result in a corresponding breakthrough in movie storytelling ? If so , I must have been naive , for what the powers that be at Disney decided to do was to take this dazzling technology and graft onto it a story that is merely a rehash of those used in some of their past hits . Dinosaur proves that playing it safe is n't always the best way to go.The opening is spectacular . A herd of dinosaurs is grazing peacefully . We see a mother watching over a nest of eggs . Suddenly , a huge carnasour emerges from the woods looking for dinner . In the ensuing mayhem , only one egg survives . What follows is a spectacular series of events in which this egg is transported to an island faraway is populated by mammals rather than dinosaurs . A family of lemurs finds the egg , and it is here that the movie starts to disintegrate The lemurs begin to speak , and this is the first time that words are used in the movie . I did not expect Disney to make a movie so profoundly different that none of the characters talked , but I was startled to find that they had been lifted straight out of The Lion King and Tarzan . It is as though the jungles of Africa is primitive as it gets in Disney World , as if how things might have been millions of years ago is beyond anyone 's imaginings . I can not emphasizing enough how beautiful this movie is to look at . It shows us that CGI technology continues to advance at breathtaking speed . The camera flies through marvelous landscapes , the dinosaurs are fanstastic to look at , and colors are wonderful . One scene in particular , in which the dinosaurs ' world is nearly destroyed by a spectacular meteor shower , is among the best animated sequences ever produced.As for the story , I wonder how many of the head honchos at Disney actually have children of their own . One wonders if they make decisions based on the children they see around them or based on focus groups . Did it ever occur to them that everything that fascinates children is not necessarily cute and cuddly or , for that matter , even safe . When I was young child , for example , I fell in love with the ocean , not because I thought it was warm and safe , but for deeper reasons I could not express . I 'm not sure what today 's children think dinosaurs were like , but I doubt they view them as big old puppy dogs or as creatures with Judeo-Christian ethics . In this movie , the dinosaur that the lemurs save grows up to be one who teaches his fellow creatures that survival of the fittest is wrong and that helping your fellow dinosaur is what it 's all about . Somehow , I do not believe that the average child will buy his argument , not when it comes to creatures in the wild . I think they will find his preaching a bit tedious . In assuming that kids take everything and translate it into a cutsey-pie fantasy world , Disney has underestimated its young audience 's intelligence and has demonstrated that it may have become somewhat out of touch with its target market , at least when it comes to this particular subject matter .