Maybe his next film can be the story of how I - pissed-off movie-goer forced to suffer thorough a truly bad director 's inane and amateurish films - comes to collect the debt by beating it out of said director 's a*s ! The epiphany comes when I learn the lesson that it is I who is really at fault because I keep watching this [ ... ] The message ; free will can be a bit*h.Uwe Boll has often been called an Ed Wood for a new generation . This would be fine if he would admit what a cruddy director he is and just go the straight cheese route ; but he insists on trying to make good movies , so we ca n't even laugh and the schlock of it all . Instead we marvel at how poorly he tries to cover up his dreck with good-looking production values , locals , and actors.In `` House of the Dead '' he was smart enough to get a bunch of hot girls naked for no other reason than to distract the movie 's key demographic ( video game geek teens ) from the fact that everything else about the movie sucked . Exotic locals and an attractive , albeit untalented , cast not withstanding , the action was directed so poorly , blandly and confusingly that the whole thing was rendered incomprehensible . The movie was one long yawn of stuff seen a million times before only this time done more ineptly than perhaps ever before . It was one of the worst films I had ever seen . Of course , I had not seen `` Alone in the Dark '' yet . Everything that went wrong with `` House of the Dead '' goes wrong in that POS as well , except this time it was somehow worse because there is a more convoluted plot that wastes even more of the viewer 's time , as if the writers are under the impression it is a good story and we care . The action , bad as was in `` House '' is even lacking here . And to add insult to injury , this one did n't even have the decency to throw in any gratuitous [ ... ] shots.And now , Uwe gives us `` Bloodrayne , '' and with it he has crafted sort of a film trilogy from hell . If anyone has ever indeed sold his soul to the devil the way we have seen in countless stories it must be Mr. Boll . How this man keeps getting these films into theatres rather than straight to video , not to mention work at all , is beyond me . He also , somehow , attracts talented actors that would be impressive names in any schlocky horror movie , not to mention one from this guy . Jurgen Prochnow in `` House of the Dead , '' and in this film we have the Terminatress ( Kristana Loken ) as well as Michael Madsen ( `` Reservoir Dogs '' ) , `` Michelle Rodriguez ( `` S.W.A.T. , '' TVs `` Lost '' ) , Billy Zane ( `` Titanic '' ) , and , most baffling , Ben Kingsly . Ben Kingsley ! ! ! Can you imagine his agent saying , 'Yeah , it 's from the acclaimed director of `` Alone in the Dark , do it ! ' ? Granted a lot of these names tend to toil in low budget fare from time to time , but they are names just the same . Why they look at these movies and this director and jump on board is beyond me . His movies are not hits . They all flop ( none has made more than 5 million ) and are all panned by critics and those who see them . So again , why does he get to keep making movies and why do known actors want to make them with him ? This is an even better question to pose to studio execs . Why do his movies keep going into theatres ? ! Why does he get work at all ? ! The Devil 's got some explaining to do . `` Bloodrayne '' is what you 'd get if `` Lord of the Rings '' and `` From Dusk Till Dawn '' had a retarded baby . It may actually earn the faint praise as the best of Boll 's films . That 's a bit like calling puke better than [ ... ] , but if you have to rank all these abominations , I think this one wins . It starts out with a nice moody tone and some picturesque cinematography . But then people start to speak . The dialogue and performances are atrocious from the get go . Even by the generally good actors . Michael Madsen sets the tone right off . He utters the film 's first line as if he 's reading it from his hooked on phonics book , and all the other actors follow suit . Loken is hot , doing something akin to a poor ( wo ) man 's Charlize Therone , and this is a Vampire movie that remembers to supply the blood and [ ... ] . But the action , again , is awful . Fight scenes are sped up and slowed down and blurred and every other damn trick to cover up their lameness . Some of the death scenes are fun in an over-the-top comically gory way . But most of the deformed faces of Vampires are laughably obvious masks and other things that have their heads severed or blood drained are obvious dummies . Ben Kingsley , whether it is intentional or not , is stuck in pancake make-up and looks laughably awful . And Meatloaf turns up doing his usual over -the-top performance shtick . He 's the only who seems to realize this thing sucks , so hammy is the way to go . At least he sucks on purpose , whereas everyone else just sucks.I ca n't stress enough that it is the dialog and the awful line readings that really make this unbearable to observe . I mean , did they bother to reshoot anything before releasing this ? ! Second to that are the poorly staged action scenes , and third is the over all sense of blandness that hangs over this thing . The story just does n't matter , and is so bad , and every time it comes into play you just wan na grab for the fast-forward button.So this sounds pretty bad right ? Funny bad , even ? I do n't know . Maybe if you 're drunk , but I still say this movie does n't even warrant a recommendation on the so-bad-its-entertaining scale . There are those moments to be sure , but because it takes itself so seriously as a whole , the plot pops up and there are long moments of pure , dead screen time . Stuff is happening but you could care less . And those stretches ai n't funny.Which brings me back to my recommendation that if Boll is gon na keep making these crapfests he needs to get out of his own way and stop thinking somewhere along the line one of them is gon na be good . Embrace is inner Ed Wood-ness . Camp it up , ham it up and just give us the over-the-top junk that is the only reason most people watch movies with titles like `` House of the Dead , '' `` Alone in the Dark , '' and `` Bloodrayne '' to begin with.He can start with the story I mentioned at the top of this review . Or something autobiographical perhaps ? The story of his meeting with Beelzebub . Of course we all know what happens there . But we do n't yet know how it ends ... Ah , chances are he 'd even screw up that movie .