The latest heist by a professional thief and his team goes terribly awry , and the organizer of the flawless plans gets more than what he bargained for . Agents and mobsters chase him , but he keeps cool under pressure , frustrates other party 's plans and can always extricate himself from the mire . This is a standard story format for action film . It looks clich & eacute ; d and predictable , but it works well with good rhythm in action and sure-handed guidance from the director . But `` 7 Seconds '' does n't have them.Wesley Snipes plays the thief named Jack . Jack 's failed robbery in Bucharest , Rumania , lands him in a fresh trouble because his girlfriend/partner-in-crime is kidnapped during the shoot-outs . He takes hostage a NATO military cop ( Tamzin Outhwaite sporting her British accent ) after the mayhem ( and saving her life too ) , and engages in urban car chase with familiar settings . The story does n't make much sense ( why steal the money of casinos in Rumania ? ) , but the earlier part of `` 7 Seconds '' is fun with decent car stunts and a little bit of humor . The actions are confusing , and you do n't know where these wildly running cars are going , but at least the stunts themselves are not bad.Then in the film 's middle section tedium settles in , which stops the actions and starts to introduce superfluous characters , plus an unnecessary plot twist or two . We do n't need to see Wesley Snipes walking in the station and putting a brief case in the coin locker there . Or actually we do n't care what the briefcase really contains at all ; and we do n't even want to know whether something in it ( whatever it is ) is real or not . We want thrill and action , or funny dialogues . Except for some brief martial arts stunts and mildly amusing banter between Snipes and Outhwaite , `` 7 Seconds '' does n't have much to show , particularly in its second part , where the film has another car stunt sequence involving street cars , but it is marred by choppy editing.We often hear complaint or criticism about direct-to-video films , but actually some of them are pretty good , offering diverting 90 minutes like the films of Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren . Unfortunately , for all the fairly good acting from the stars , Wesley Snipes ' `` 7 Seconds '' is not one of them .