I enjoy good Asian movies particularly when Takeshi Kaneshiro is in one but he is not in this movie ! I did n't see Aaron either . I really wish I 'd read the reviews before buying and I will from now on , just to make sure the character 's listed are actually in the movie . Now who would have thought that was necessary ? Of course I could tell from the cover that he was n't going to be the lead character which was fine with me but I should 've realized he 's not the caliber of actor that is n't on the cover any more . Is it possible that when they say the movie is by Takeshi they mean he produced it ? I 'm so clueless and annoyed with their misleading information I could almost scream . If they had't lied about the cast I would n't have bought this at all.It 's obviously a television drama edited quite poorly with lots of action , wuxia wire action included , good looking actors and a somewhat confusing plot . If it 's a sequel I suppose that explains some of the problems because people pop in and the main characters know them but we 've no idea who they are or if they 're bad or good though we assume they must be friends or enemies or both depending upon their actions . At one point they 're all together a la power rangers forming a giant sword and I did n't have a clue who they were or how Wind even got there working to help the bad guy . I also did n't realize Wave was the brother of Cloud ( I think ) until much later in the story . It would have packed much more of an emotional punch if I 'd known from the beginning but maybe because I was so bored it got past me somehow ! ? When Wind becomes a demon there 's no explanation as to how long or when he changes back to normal or even how . He 's with Mung , his wife one minute then not the next , she adopts a boy and then he 's never seen again until it 's his cue to warn her inadvertently that the master has a cold behind . It 's just a hodge podge of scenes thrown together that leave you wondering how he or she did/got so and so . I would n't recommend this movie at all.It 's filmed more like a soap opera , has that video feel to it and it 's simply edited horribly . I was bored waiting to see when Takeshi would appear thinking perhaps he was the nameless one but I could n't even figure out who the nameless one was . Maybe if they 'd followed through with that , whoever they wanted as the nameless one , it might have given it more of a punch . A perfect way to waste one 's time .