It was the franchise slugfest fans thought would never happen except in comic book form . After years and years of failed attempts and false starts , the powers that be finally got it together . Hoping to capitalize on the surprise success of the merging of two successful horror franchises with Freddy vs. Jaso , two of science fiction 's most popular creatures go toe-to-toe in Alien vs . Predator with those pesky humans caught in the middle.There 's not a clich & eacute ; that this film does n't like . The disposable characters are broadly sketched . For example , a bottle cap worn around a character 's neck is considered a defining trait . The film even manages to include that old chestnut where characters outrun a fireball explosion.Fans waiting for the two alien races to start slugging it out will have to wait almost an hour until their first battle but it is pretty impressive as they toss each other around like something out of a comic book . Admittedly , the fight scenes are pretty cool in all their CGI-assisted glory but this is hardly an endorsement.Poor Lance Henriksen is slumming it here as an egotistical businessman who provides the only human link to the other Alien films ( it is hinted that he is the inspiration for the Bishop android in Aliens ) . He 's only in maybe a quarter of the film before being quickly dispatched.There is an audio commentary by writer/director Paul W.S . Anderson and actors Lance Henriksen and Sanaa Lathan . They plug along gamely seemingly oblivious to the narrative mess that is this movie.Also included is an audio commentary by visual effects supervisor John Bruno and creature effects designers Alec Gillis and Tom Woodruff Jr . Anyone who likes to listen to these kinds of details will find this track informative.There are three deleted scenes totaling two minutes and include a little bit of Predator humour that was rightly cut.Also included are two trailers and a gallery of the comic book covers to Dark Horse 's Alien vs . Predator series.Alien vs . Predator was not worth the wait and fans of the comic book will feel cheated . The film starts off slow but once the Aliens and the Predators start pounding each other the weak script and clumsy plotting fades mercifully into the background . It 's a shame because both of these alien races are ripe for countless story ideas that subsequent sequels have not been able to capitalize on effectively . All we are left with is a good looking , paint-by-numbers movie .