I think that this is a horrible video.The first 57 minutes teach you things like : -what is vibrato-how to do hammer ons , pull offs , trills-A ( G ) major arpeggio ( he plays it - no explanation like 'this is the root , then the 3rd , then the 5th , now I repeat it ' or anything like that , he just plays an arpeggio . Big whoop . ) -augmented & amp ; diminished chords ( he plays them with very little explanation other than one has a flat 5th and the other has a rasied 5th - at point he says that if you want to know more you should go buy a book ! ) -A George Van Eps lickOK , here is the thing ... These are all EXTREMELY BASIC . These are things that anyone who has been playing guitar for more than a year or two should already know , for the most part . Maybe not inside and out , but he does n't teach it inside & amp ; out.For most of the above he gives only 1 example with very little explanation at all . None of this has to do specifically with Gypsy jazz.Oh , but for the last 2 or 3 minutes he plays a Gypsy jazz tune . He could have taken the exact same video and played an Yngwie Malmsteen song at the end instead and called the video & quot ; neoclassical soloing & quot ; and it would have been just as & quot ; valid & quot ; as calling this a gypsy jazz video ! Now , I would imagine that someone wanting to get into Gypsy Jazz already knows how to do hammer ons and pull offs . If they do n't then they need to continue practicing for many more years before hoping to tackle gypsy jazz . So who is this video for ? Does Paul Mehling even know ? There is NO theory in this video at all . NOTHING ! He does not tell you when to play the scales and trills , etc . that he shows you , or how they relate to the chords , or anything . There is no examination of rhythmic placement of notes when soloing ( that would be the SWING portion of gypsy swing guitar ) . There is no examination of what scales django preferred over what chords , nothing like that at all.The video is & quot ; here are some basic techniques that any beginning student of guitar should know about , now watch me play 1 Django tune with no explanation at all. & quot ; There is no dissecting or ripping apart Djangos style at all as another reviewer suggested . Nothing of the sort . Neither is it a primer on jazz improv in my opinion.The sad thing is that this video COULD have been so much more . Paul is obviously an excellent player , and knows the style . He does n't teach it well though . There are lots of excellent guitar players that just do n't make good teachers . Paul seems to be one of these . Someone should tell him ! I am now headed off to eBay to sell my video to someone else.I would HIGHLY reccommend for anyone else trying to get into this style the hotclub website for some basic lesson info , and Stan Ayeroff 's book & quot ; The Music of Django Reinhardt 44 classic solos by the legendary guitarist with a complete analysis & quot ; MelBay pub , ISBN : 0-7866-3388-3