The war against humanity is at its greatest peak . The planet Roku San is at its harshest point . With military support waning , soldiers dying daily , and with new bugs constantly revealing themselves to the world , how will humanity survive , if not without you ? The Federation is currently looking for men and women to help fight this terror . How would you like to be a hero , and how would you like to become a citizen while you 're at it ? Would you like to know more ? STARSHOOP TROOPERS as a series has become infamously known , if only because the second film did nothing to contribute to the first film 's storyline . With little hope in mind , I set out to watch STARSHOOP TROOPERS : MARAUDER in the hopes that , somehow , it would be better than the second , and maybe as good as the first.Sadly , disappointment takes the reins and throws me back a step with STARSHIP TROOPERS 3.Set on the planet Roku San and following our original hero , Johnny Rico , the film is soon shown to have little hope when we get to learning about a few of its characters . Johnny Rico , experienced in his newfound years in the military , has always been known to not follow orders , but in the case of death ? The sky marshal , one of the most famous men on Earth , is a pop star ? And soldiers who , normally , would not become star struck , are enamored in a sky marshal slash singer 's presence , often to the point of completely disobeying orders and ignoring outside threat ? What has the series come too , if not a total cheese factor ? Sadly , this does n't let up anytime soon . With a plot mainly following an offcast , Angelina Jolie-lookalike actress named Jolene Blalock as she leads a small group of individuals across the desert of Roku San , the film ultimately falls low as it devolves into an exaggerated attempt of a science-fiction movie.PROS : - Some actors . Jolene Blalock played her character extremely well , as did Marnette Patterson as Holly Little . I also have to give the man who played Johnny Rico credit for contributing to this film . I do n't know how much they paid him , but hopefully enough to substantiate his time in playing in a very bad , very underdeveloped movie.The long , long list of cons : CONS : - The CGI . Given that the first film was made in 1997 , it was amazingly disappointing that the CGI was so bad . Given the advancement in computer graphics technology , you would think that a film would at least TRY to live up to the standards as its 1997 counterpart . Nope -- it did n't . There 's no need to think that anymore.- The acting . The majority of the acting was littered with poor actors and actresses . Overemphasized , unamphasized , not emphasized at all -- I found very few of the actors to be worth watching . I could n't help but cringe at the way some of them played their characters , and at the way several of them were portrayed . Military men and women do n't follow what we , as individuals , would think they would , marshals and officers order troops around in inane , nonsensical patterns , and soldiers throw themselves over exploding bugs when they could simply retreat to the back of the room . Valor is n't even an issue here -- its stupidity that takes the toll.- The cheese . Yes , I specifically mentioned cheese , if only because it 's highly relevant in this movie . Sky Marshals as popstars , soldiers being told they 'll be shot if they ask for an autograph , then trying to ask for an autograph , higher-ranking Federation officers not bothering to draw a gun when they 're getting mercilessly beat up , then trying to arrest a soldier for getting the assailant off him -- there 's no short amount of corny action to this movie , as there 's no shortage of stupidity that comes with the cheese factor.In all , I could n't help but wonder what exactly happened to this movie . STARSHIP TROOPERS 2 was a disappointment unto itself , but three ? ... it 's horrible . It 's better than 2 , if only because it follows the storyline and world building of the first better , but it still does n't make it a movie worth watching.The STARSHIP TROOPERS franchised should 've died after the first one was made . MARAUDER should quickly die a slow , horrible death , if only because it tarnishes the original to the point of disappointment . I was excited to see this , despite the warnings several of my friends gave me . I definitely wo n't watch a fourth in this movie . If I even begin to attempt to , I 'll remind myself of how horrible two and three were , then push the first movie into the DVD player , if only because the first will always be the only good STARSHIP TROOPERS movie .