Stereotypical characters , convoluted logic , and an abundant absence of intelligence abide in & quot ; Domestic Disturbance , & quot ; a thriller that wants to be naughty , but ends up playing nice . What begins as a somewhat interesting film tailspins into an unending chasm of unbelievable plot twists and aggravating characters who make all the wrong choices . Here is a movie that covers familiar ground , yet it fails to spark much interest once things go awry . John Travolta stars as Frank Morrison , a boat builder whose ex-wife Susan ( Teri Polo ) is on the brink of remarrying . This , of course , is unacceptable to their 12-year-old son , Danny ( Matthew O'Leary ) , whose outbursts against his parents ' divorce have led to being picked up from the police station on numerous occasions . Like any good father , Frank advises Danny to accept that which he can not change , and to give his new stepfather , the wealthy and popular Rick Barnes ( Vince Vaughn ) , a warm welcome . Now anyone who knows their thrillers can guess that if there is money involved , then there 's usually a tainted past here and there ; this film is no exception . The wedding goes off without a hitch , despite the presence of Ray Coleman ( Steve Buscemi ) , a former acquaintance of Rick 's who is set on collecting a large sum of money from his old pal . One thing leads to another , contrivances appear , and Rick has a murder on his hands , unaware that Danny witnessed the deed from the backseat of the car in which it occurred . This is the first in a series of several scenes that look promising , but hold little intensity or surprise . Judging from Danny 's & quot ; Boy Who Cried Wolf & quot ; syndrome , it is easy to foresee that no one will believe him when he reveals what he saw , save for Frank , who must hold a grudge against his son 's aggressor if there is to be any action or energy in the story . There 's a little bit of cat-and-mouse going on , as Frank searches for the missing Ray and possible clues to take to the police , but it goes virtually nowhere . The movie seems more interested in showing us just how stupid people can be in such situations , however unbelievable they may be . From the start , Susan stands by her man , defending him against Danny 's accusations . Does it ever occur to her that when a strange event happens , Rick was out of the house at that same time ? Does she ever stop to think about how her disbelief in her son 's statements is affecting him , rather than the old song-and-dance about her marriage to Rick ? Even the police are completely clueless , ignoring everything until the end when it hardly matters . My big complaint with & quot ; Domestic Disturbance & quot ; is its editor , who has chopped the movie down to a mere 88 minutes , too short for a thriller and too long for a documentary on vengeful stepfathers . Paramount 's advertising campaign for the film hit us with a slew of pre-release television commercials , as well as a lengthy and revealing theatrical trailer . There are scenes in both of these , one of which involves a car chase , the other involving a discussion between Rick and Frank in which Rick tries to buy him off . These and others glimpses are not even included in the final cut , and perhaps may have been more interesting than what we see here . The climax is standard fodder , but it has the ability to generate more intensity than the rest of the film altogether . Travolta turns in a good performance , convincing us of his status as a loving father ; Vaughn fails to generate a sense of menace , while Polo does little else except look completely clueless . For all its attributes ( which are few ) , & quot ; Domestic Disturbance & quot ; adds nothing new to a worn out genre ; its lack of lucid plot could be overlooked if not for its failure to generate any level of suspense . 'Note : The film was shot on the eastern coast of North Carolina , in Southport , yet in one scene , Ray mentions his locating Rick was from a childhood memory of Rick 's about a family vacation in Maryland . Your thoughts , Mr. McNally ?