I ca n't tell a joke well . A bad joke is n't funny no matter who tells it , but a person such as myself can make a good joke bad . A story also has to be told well and , in the case of a movie , filmed well , to be interesting . The problem with AntiTrust is that it 's an okay tale that is n't told or filmed very well . It 's lovely to look at , yet has neither electricity nor soul.Milo [ Ryan Phillippe ] is a computer genius . Fresh out of college , he plans to start a business with some friends out of a garage , just like their computer heroes did twenty years ago . They plan to make their mark in cyberspace . One day , seemingly out of the blue , Milo and his best friend are approached by Gary Winston [ Tim Robbins ] , who wants them to come to work for his giant , multinational company . It seems Winston is about to launch a computer program which will revolutionize communications , but he needs a few good geeks to get it operational . The friend , a wise young man , decides to stick to his original plan , but Milo gets sucked in . Along with his girlfriend Alice [ Claire Forlani ] , he packs up and moves to Portland , Oregon , the home of Winston 's Nurve Corporation . It is n't long before Milo suspects that Winston will literally kill to get what he wants . Breakthroughs in the programming of the new product always seem to happen just after the mysterious death of some bright programmer . One of the problems in the movie is with some of the casting . Tim Robbins is fine as Winston , making him look and act so much like Bill Gates that it 's a bit spooky . Ryan Phillippe , however , I ca n't buy as any kind of genius . He 's done a good job in the past playing such roles as a sociopath [ Cruel Intentions ] , a psychopath [ The Way of the Gun ] and a party boy [ 54 ] . But a computer whiz ? I do n't think so . Rachael Lee Cook is equally unbelievable as Lisa , a fellow programmer . Claire Forlani , who may be a star one day soon , is fine as Alice , but it 's a part that 's way beneath her capabilities . AntiTrust belongs to the paranoid thriller genre . That 's the one in which only the hero has figured out a diabolical plot . Until the end of the movie , the rest of the characters are almost always blind to the truth and tend to believe that the hero is simply stressed out . Alfred Hitchcock 's Rear Window is a classic example of this kind of film . To succeed , the movie must cause the audience to care about the protagonist . It must relate to him This does n't happen in AntiTrust . Milo is just too bland and lame to hold our interest . It 's one of those cases where , if we relate to anyone at all , it 's to the bad guy , Winston . At least he 's quick-witted and somehow humorous . You know a movie is in trouble when we start rooting for the villian .