This 1914 film is considered the first feature-lenth comedy ever made and , as such , is worth viewing just for that . The film on its merits , however , is less interesting . Sure , this is slapstick , but I personally found the Tillie character to be quite ridiculous ; ridiulous , moreover , without being particularly amusing . She 's made up to look like -- -and seemingly acts like -- -a guy in drag pledging a fraternity . Marie Dressler , then 45 years-old , playing such a supposedly youthful character as `` Tillie '' , to boot , is less comical than it is distracting . If you are going to take the time to see this film , in other words , you ought be doing so simply to see a historically significant film . So , no , it 's not a film you 'll most likely want to own and watch again and again , unless you 're simply enamored by anything and everything Chaplin has done . If you have n't seen anything by Chaplin do n't start here ! And if you are a discerning Chaplin fan you 'd be better served ( if you care to be amused ) by sampling some of his much greater efforts . For the curious , I offer a brief synopsis of Tillie 's Punctured Romance : `` What 's this he 's got -- -one of Ringling 's elephants ? '' So remarks Mabel Normand 's character ( so to speak , in this silent film ) as she spies Chaplin 's 'City Guy ' arm in arm with `` Built like a battleship '' Tillie . Tillie has `` got a bankroll as thick as herself '' , Chaplin 's character later explains to Normand , his old partner in crime . Then once successful in lifting said cash from Tillie , Chaplin flees with Normand . Upon hearing of Tillie 's apparent inheritance of 3 million dollars soon after , however , he returns to her and begs Tillie to marry him ASAP . They later whoop it up with many quests ( with Normand working as hired help ) at a celebratory party at Tillies 's `` new '' home , until her uncle -- -thought dead -- -returns to claim it back , throwing them out into the street as he does so . A keystone-cops-like chase ensues all through town and seaside along a boardwalk and then ends with Normand and ( a soaking wet ) Tillie agreeing that Chaplin 's favor is hardly worth pursuing anyway . Curtain . Cheers !