For big fans of Manhunter , I would advise you to steer clear ofthis DVD if you plan to own ... What has been billed as the & quot ; Theatrical & quot ; version is in fact a poorly spliced rendition that awkwardly edits two scenes that had been in the theatrical release , including one of the most pivotal scenes , and yet has within it some of most banal footage restored from the cutting room floor . These cuts are both poorly done and have no sense to them , given how they do not represent the theatrical release and destroy the momentum of what had been a finely edited movie . I do n't know if it was ignorance or arrogance , but this is the worst hack job I 've ever seen trying to pass itself off as product . Whoever was in charge of this at Anchor Bay was an idiot and if I were Michael Mann , I 'd be calling my lawyers . The & quot ; Director 's Cut & quot ; is even worse in that it includes the & quot ; Un-theatrical & quot ; release AND the so-called & quot ; Director 's Cut & quot ; - a compilation of some interesting and not so interesting out-takes . As a companion to a true theatrical release , this would have been a fascinating addition ; BUT here again , Anchor Bay finds a way to ruin what should be a good product . The entire movie that has not been put through video post-production , is smudged and blurry , as if transferred from a VHS tape - and a worn one at that . - Just incredible that anyone could have the audacity to offer this kind of cheapness for hard earned money.I saw this movie when it first came out in the theatre and considered it one of the best of that year ; and I rushed to buy the LaserDisc version when it came out . When the Director 's Cut DVD was released by Anchor Bay this year , I 'd been on the waiting list - ready to welcome the widescreen THX enhanced version . Being intimately aware of the movie , imagine my disappointment . Do n't waste your time . Wait for a better version to come out.As for those folks to want to compare Silence of the Lambs to Manhunter , usually they favor one over the other and their minds are pretty much made up at this point . I 'm squarely in the Manhunter camp . For myself , I enjoyed Silence , but I could never take it seriously since I found the portayal of Lector both cartoonishly superhuman and therefore unrealistic and unsuspensful . However , Manhunter 's Lector is a chilling but more realistic portrayal that awes me every time I see it in how one evil genius manages to manipulate events outside of his cell through the simple device of a telephone . This Lector is safely behind steralized bars - and yet still manages to be a forceful presence to tbe reckoned with.I hope every fan and future fan of Manhunter gets to see it the way it first came out , a fine piece of craft that was lean and edgey , and yet which flowed stylishly . Siskel and Ebert rated it one of the best movies ever , years after it came out . But for now , I 'll be holding onto my LaserDisc .