I generally do not use the space provided for product reviews to comment on the condition of a particular piece of merchandise , or draw attention to a less than reputable buyer . In this case , however , I 'll make an exception . The DVD I received today , being sold through Amazon LLC , the one listed as `` Passport to Pimlico '' ( Remastered Edition ) , is obviously a homemade job . The outside label is a color photocopy , the one on the DVD itself is black & white , for goodness sake . Flip the DVD over and you can clearly see the band that home recording makes on a recordable DVD . The manufacturer , A2ZCDs , seems to be a professional outfit , with a significant catalogue , nice-looking web site etc . But I 'm not sure why this sale was n't listed as coming through a third-party vendor . ( At least its coming from Amazon makes it easier to return . ) But more significantly , is n't the home manufacture of DVDs simply , well , illegal ? Does n't that constitute piracy ? My assumption when I read the word `` remastered '' is that the print is made from an existing negative , or significantly cleaned up ; I certainly expect that the studio , filmmakers or at least film historians have some hand in producing the disc . Perhaps whoever runs A2ZCDs has done some work of this kind on home equipment , but this does n't excuse misleading the general public.It could be that I 'm way off base and that the copyright on `` Passport to Pimlico '' ran out years ago . Perhaps no-one owns the film and we all have as much right to photocopy and sell it as the next guy . If so , my ( guarded ) apologies to A2ZCDs . I do think , however , that buyers should be aware that they are not receiving merchandise that in any way reflects what most of us who collect films have come to think of as `` remastered '' or even professionally produced . I have a Panasonic DVD recorder and make my own DVDs of films I 've videotaped off of TMC . In my wildest dreams , however , it would never occur to me to sell them . Maybe that makes me an idiot . If so , at least I 'm an honest one .