First of all I want to inform you guys that I 'm huge Recess fan . So this is coming from a fan 's perspective.So you really want to know what this is ? This is like the `` Miracle On Third Street '' DVD with where the actual stories are loosely held together . There are 4 actual stories ( 3 already seen TV episodes ) and only one new 13 minute episode.It starts out when TJ and his gang go back to the old , abandoned playground at the back end of the playground and are captured by the kindergarteners . They are held `` hostage '' by the new chief called Chief Stinky and the gang tries telling them stories about their experiences with the kindergarteners and then lastly Gus tells when the gang were kindergarteners ( the new episode . ) The three already seen episodes are `` The Legend of Big Kid '' , `` Wild Child '' , and `` The Kindergarten Derby . '' The Bonus DVD Episodes titled as `` Fans ' 3 Favorite Episodes '' are : The Challenge , The Story of Whomps , and One Stayed Clean . *I kind of doubt that they are the most favorite because I know `` The Experiment '' is really popular among fans because it 's when TJ and Spinelli first kiss.Also if you wonder why Gus is on the cover when he supposedly entered Third Street at 4th grade . Well in the DVD , Gus went to Third Street during Kindergarten but only for a couple of weeks and only he remembers kindergarten while the rest of the gang does n't remember a thing about that year which explains why Gus is on the cover.You 'll notice that TJ 's and Mikey 's voices are different ( not too different or annoying but it 's noticable ) because the original voice actors ' voices had become too deep . Anyways , when I bought this DVD I thought it would be an hour long adventure of the story when TJ and the gang were kindergarteners ... but sadly it was not . It was really pathetic of Disney to do that and give such a careless piece of patched up `` already seen TV '' episodes . I gave it only 2 stars because of the one new episode . If you bought `` Miracle on Third Street '' and were disappointed , I do n't think you would want this . If you are new fan , and have n't seen all of the episodes ... then this a great DVD for you to catch up on ! If you are a parent and considering this as simple whimisical entertainment for your child , I would HIGHLY suggest this but more so because the DVD and episodes are hilarious but yet can also have powerful good messages of friendship and believing in yourself , and so forth . I know that most kids like this because my own younger cousins ( around 8-12 years ) like the cartoon also and can relate to the characters with them being in school.I hope this helps you guys out !