Ok , quickly and without hesitation , click the ` Back ' button on your web browser as many times as it takes to get completely get away from seeing anything that has to do with this movie.If you did n't heed my advice above , then you are obviously into watching train wrecks , ten car pileups and little kids frying ants with their magnifying glass . In other words , you 're a cinematic sadist . If you 've already seen this movie , then you 've probably lost some self esteem . If you plan on seeing it after you read this review ... you 're just a masochist.Bloodrayne is horrible . Beyond horrible . Ben Kingsley has made some bad career choices in his day but this one takes the cake . Michael Madsen , who used to be considered respectable if not great , is heading down the career failing slope faster than a California mudslide after a monsoon . Michelle Rodriguez , who has openly stated she wants to be a gypsy actress , a free spirit , is the most unscathed simply because you 're going to limit yourself with that kind of career decision . That does n't get her off the hook for this travesty . I ca n't imagine anyone as rebellious as her standing quietly while this heap of crud was being dumped around her like garbage at a landfill . And then there 's Kristana Loken ... well , you get to see her nude . That 's about the highlight of her role . And what the hell is Meatloaf doing in this movie ... and credited by his FULL name ? ! He picked this atrocity to decide he wants to be credited with TWO names instead of ONE ? HUH ? ! Everyone else is unknown , which surprisingly does n't leave many roles left for the unknowns . It was amazing how they amassed this group of named actors for something so horribly bad . It 's not just the actors , it 's the dialogue , the F/X and the even the plot ... which escapes me for the moment . I guess I 'm trying to remove this movie from my memory . So do yourself a favor and stay away , stay far , far away . Trust me , it 's for your own good .