`` Ring Around the Rosie '' stars Gina Philips ( `` Jeepers Creepers '' ) and Tom Sizemore ( `` Saving Private Ryan '' ) . I was interested in their names , but sadly the film is terribly boring , even though it runs less than 90 minutes.Gina Philips plays Karen , a young business woman who inherits a house in a remote place in the countryside , which might or might not be haunted . Near the house lives a caretaker played by Tom Sizemore , who might or might not be possessed by something evil . The premise is all too familiar , used recently in such films as `` The Amityville Horror , '' and with the right direction the film would be thrilling.But you will soon realize that there in no thrills of any kind , not even a surprise by sudden big sound , in `` Ring Around the Rosie '' which introduces many recycled bits of images seen in other thrillers - from rudimentary tricks like shadows moving behind the door , a weird reflection in the mirror , strange noise in the midnight or unreliable neighbor staring at the protagonist , to the heroine tormented by nightmares and her buried memories of the past.The film has also Karen 's amiable boyfriend ( Randall Batinkoff ) and her lovely younger sister ( Jenny Mollen ) . The former leaves the house while Karen stays to clean up the house ; the latter arrives there and what Karen sees and hears start to get stranger . Considering the nature of the conclusion and suggested history of Karen 's childhood ( which I can not disclose here ) , there could be some psychological explanations about the strange events that terrorize Karen , as in such thrillers as ` The Others . '' That 's what I thought while trying not to sleep , but no matter how I try , I can not find one in this disjointed story that is confusing and illogical . If you see a character falling from the window and another character catches her in his arms in a cartoon-like way , you realize this is not a very good psychological thriller.Or maybe I am thinking too much . Probably this is another badly written horror film you might find in your rental video shop , borrow it and regret it later . Whatever it is , I was bored , and that I can say pretty confidently .