With star-wattage this high , you could reasonably have expected this movie to glow a lot brighter . As it is , it is a tired mess that harks back to far superior similar ` thrillers ' from the ` 90's.Halle Berry has a friend who is killed in an unusual way , just after confiding to Berry she was meeting and potentially blackmailing Bruce Willis , a married high flying executive with an eye for the ladies.Halle Berry , being an investigative journalist , pulls in her friend Giovanni Ribisi ( the best thing in the movie , and the only true acting with any ambiguity attached ) to go under cover . Or under the covers , might be more appropriate . She poses online to meet him in his preferred chatroom , and as a temp in his office seducing him to get close enough to find out what she needs to know.Needless to say , twists and turns follow . Let 's just say right off - watching people type instant messages to each other is NOT exciting . And if you are expecting some frisson of sexual tension or action on screen , you are also likely to be hugely disappointed . Although advertised as an erotic thriller , the action is all of the internet kind and any supposed tension in the story is of the whodunit variety rather than whodunwho ... and it 's a good thing Willis and Berry do n't get down and dirty , with the appalling lack of chemistry they appear to have , and lack of conviction in their roles they exude.Ribisi is the only successful wild card in the proceedings that leaves us in any doubt as to the outcome . That ending may be a supposed twist , but lacks the credibility to be satisfying , as the facts all jump out at the end like a cheap trick in a funhouse , rather than thought provoking moment that puts pieces together strewn through the movie , in the way a better scripted effort might have achieved.Disappointing , with suitably flimsy ` making of.. ' as the sole extra . Perhaps with the ludicrously over the top product replacement they did not feel they needed money back from the movie ...