While it 's true the once-brilliant `` Soap '' suffers major , terminal creative problems in its fourth and final season ( why is Burt suddenly the sanest member of the family ? ) , it bests practically every comedy on the air today with its daring mix of comedy , drama , romance , suspense , and pathos . Season Four offers up plenty of memorable TV moments , if fewer than the previous three seasons , including Burt 's crisis of faith , El Puerco and his Juans ' hilarious introduction to the family , Chester 's touching and too-late realization that he loves Jessica , Dutch and Eunice 's tacky wedding , and Mary 's struggle to maintain her sanity amidst some veritable insanity . No show today even comes close to `` Soap '' even in this , its weakest season.What Sony has done to the fourth season is appalling and a mystery . While its presentations of Seasons One through Three were technically unremarkable , much of that due to so-so source materials , at least the episodes remained intact and were presented as they were originally on ABC and on the VHS release of the series by Columbia House in the 1990s . For some reason , Sony has opted here to edit the fourth season of `` Soap '' by lopping off most of the pre-episode recaps ( `` In the last episode of 'Soap ' . . . `` ) , some of which were quite clever and none of which consumed more than 40 or so seconds of time . Worse , Sony has edited the final five , one-hour episodes of the season into ten half-hours , omitting entire scenes and essentially including heavily-edited syndicated versions of the show 's home stretch . ( I do not know if these are indeed the syndicated versions of these episodes , but they are significantly different than the episodes as they appeared on the Columbia House tapes , which offered uncut episodes as they appeared on ABC in 1981 . ) Given Sony 's thorough and whole releases of `` Soap '' Seasons 1-3 , this shoddy , incomplete packaging of Season 4 is a puzzle , a disappointment , and of value only to fans who just have to have the entire series on DVD . Otherwise , true fans of the unabridged , unedited series should hold on to -- or find -- the final year of `` Soap '' on VHS and suffer the inferior quality until Sony rights this wrong .