It is rather difficult to review this movies , as one has to take in all the reasons why this movie was bound to fail miserably . First of all , this is the sequel somewhat to the Interview With the Vampire movie ( although the third book in the series ) . Since the second book of the series ( The Vampire Lestat ) had not been made into a movie , the producers of this film had to compact two books of history into one movie . That is one reason why the film left out the majority of both books ( read the books , by the way ) . Second of all , this film was sequel to the extremely popular and sucessful Inteview With the Vampire , so naturally , repeating that formula would have been very impossible indeed . One reason for that is that the previous film was cast with some very big stars ( Tom Cruise , Brad Pitt , Antonio Banderas , Christian Slater ) , while Queen of the Damned was cast with only one : Aalyiah . The rest of the cast was relatively unknown ( Stuart Townsend is n't really well known as of now ) .All these problems aside , the movie itself is quite horrible . If you have read the book , you will be very disappointed , mainly because much of Rice 's rich characterization is lost . None of the vampire 's history is revealed , most specifically the Legend of the Twins , which is left totally out . The rest of the vampires are only glimpsed near the end of the movie , and are never referred to by name . Unless you 've read the book , you wo n't be able to tell who 's who . Other idiotic point is that the older vampires , for all their short time on screen , dress in the clothing of the era they were made , which is entirely untrue in the book . Something that other 's might consider minor is the disappointing lack of physical resemblance the characters have to their counterparts in the books . For example , Marius is described as a man in his forties , with long gray hair , and a beautiful face . Jesse is much older in the book , with very prominent red hair , and the brief appearance of Armand is vastly wrong , because he looks more like Lestat would . The only correct thing about Armand 's physical appearance is his age : he is much younger here than in Interview With the Vampire , because the books state Armand was made a vampire when he was 17 . The only one who really looked close to his description is Lestat . Stuart Townsend looked very much like my conception of Lestat , though his voice was far too deep . Still , he did n't look as good as Tom Cruise in that part . Physical resemblance is important because vampires are described as being very sensual and beautiful , and the movies suffers for failing to accurately bring those literary characters to movie life . I wo n't really start with the inaccuracies with the book ; there were far too many . The main liberties taken ( besides the absence of the other vampires ) were the relationship with Marius and Lestat . Lestat was not made by Marius , as others have pointed out , and Marius as portrayed as something of an evil vampire , when in the book he is Lestat 's mentor and he only slays evil men . The ending is wholly different , and impossible to compare and contrast here ( read the books ) . The main reason I think it failed is that the movie sacrificed a rich story for pop culture refrences . More is made of this movie 's soundtrack and Lestat 's brief career as a nu-metal star than anything else , even the story . For the reasons I described in the beginning of this review , I do think the filmakers were doomed to repeat the success of Interview With the Vampire , but that is no excuse for not even making an effort . The producers try to make excuses if for , most notably with the cut scenes , where they try to explain why they cut more footage of the other vampires . In conclusion , Queen of the Damned is a miserable failure , mainly for giving up a rich and thrilling story for pop-culture references . As I have said , it would have been impossible to repeat the success of the former vampire movie , but this movie is just too awful to even stand on it 's own .