It seemed that this movie was targeted for that age group ( 13-16 years old ) or the director/film maker where that old when they made this crap . The director 's commentary changed my view on the first movie so I thought the director 's commentary would change my mind on this one . Nope , no such luck . The acting was just so bad that it had me laughing out loud . The complete insanity of the `` general '' making a total ass of himself and saying such silly and stupid things made me say `` wow '' out loud several times.The premise of the first movie was to conclude that in war all governments eventually turn into fascists governments . When I say `` turn into '' I do n't mean that literally . Just that they behave and produce those results . This came directly from the director 's mouth during his commentary and that is what he was trying to get across.As I listened to this commentary ( there are two of them - one from the film maker and the other from the director/cast ) I really did n't get a clear picture of what they were trying to say . Sure there was the ending where the director was saying that the State will USE religion to their benefit . If it interferes with them , they will try to eliminate it , if they think they can use it for an advantage then they would . Regardless of these `` messages '' that they were trying to convey , it was done in an amateurish and sloppy way.I give sci-fi a GREAT deal of leeway when it comes to suspending belief , however I do have limits . There was something that did occur to me and it might occur to you too . The way these people behaved would tend to make me believe that a highly advanced technological society could in fact be extremely sloppy and inefficient . Anyone that has been in our own military ( as I have ) would have thought of a million better ways to protect the base and battle these bugs . Even with our current day weapons , our own military could put down a volume of fire that would annihilate these bugs . For a society that has been at war with these bugs for the past 10 years would make any government fire the contractor or the advanced weapons division that continues to use those ineffective firearms they use , Marauders at the end notwithstanding . The level of insubordination in these troopers is amazing given the extreme threat and in some cases carried out punishments . But I guess that is part of the point ; that a totalitarian society might indeed produce armies with methods and leadership that is highly dysfunctional.These are some of the things that come to mind , though you can get that from the first movie without wasting your time on this bad one . I thought SST 2 was bad and I still think that one is worse than this one , but not by much .