Pssst - hey , listen - have you seen BLOODRAYNE yet ? No ? Then , quickly and quietly - click your mouse and skedaddle out of this webpage . If you have n't yet seen this cinematic albatross , then do yourself a favor and do n't ( it 's too late for me , but you go on and save yourself , and - remember - do n't look back ! ) . I saw it , and I now utterly loathe myself for my staggering lack of judgment , so much so that , nowadays , I find myself second guessing my every decision , all because of BLOODRAYNE . Obviously , this malady of mine can only be cured by an attempt to alleviate the turbulent world situation somehow ; after some thought and realizing that I have neither wealth , power , political prowess , nor a starring role in the Lara Croft flicks , my contribution must then come in the form of this cautionary review . By hopefully dissuading you from viewing this piece of dreck , my hope is that you wo n't grow biased against innocent Romanians or harbor intense resentment against Sir Ben Kingsley ( although it 's okay to resent Michael Madsen ) . Trust me , this is n't worth spending an hour and a half of your non-refundable time , time you could better spend watching the superior SON OF THE MASK . Ewe Boll , as it turns out , sucks more than his vampires . Ewe Boll is to directing what H.P . Lovecraft is to light-hearted sketch comedy.Normally , this is the point where I 'd unveil something of the film plot , but , no ... I do n't want to . Suffice it to say , there are uninventive vampires , gratuitous blood-letting , uninspired and unconvincing fight scenes , cheesy f/x , and lackluster acting - except that `` lackluster '' might be too complimentary an adjective ; the apt descriptive for the acting here is `` f*cked up . '' The two most credible actors present are Michelle Rodriguez ( GIRLFIGHT ) and Ben Kingsley ( GANDHI ) , and , frankly , what the hell were they thinking ? Also , I 'm all for formal , stilted dialogue when warranted , and I guess the period setting does take place sometime in the 18th century ( apparently , before the invention of contractions ) , but every word that grudgingly emanates from the actors ' lips are excruciatingly cringe-worthy and delivered with the cinematic charisma of a coma victim or a Baldwin brother.Here 's the thing : I do n't like to give out negative reviews . I 'm a fairly positive person . Normally , with the books I 've read and the films I 've watched , if I do n't like 'em , I do n't bother writing about 'em . Why bother , when I can write glowing endorsements for stuff I actually enjoy ? Which begs this question : what kind of a movie is so stinky that I actually relish the trashing of it ? Yup , it 's this one . In fact , the only enjoyment I derive from the BLOODRAYNE experience ( other than in fleetingly seeing Kristanna Loken nude ) is in giving it the smackdown on page . BLOODRAYNE seems , on the surface , to be mouthwatering eye candy , chock full of caramel goodness , but , on actual perusal , tastes like the candy 's full of strychnine , two-month-old coleslaw , and toe jam . And that is BLOODRAYNE .