I had been eager to see this film version of H.G . Wells classic novel as the producers claimed it would remain faithful to the original location & period of late Victorian Great Britain.Initially I had been put off from purchasing this film since the original release in 2005 due to the initial , and significant quantity of , complaints of low production values , poor FX , below par acting and `` endless walking scenes '' . Suffice to say that my passion for the novel and courisity had got the better of me and I had to see this film for myself.Basically I was aware of the short comings and did not have high expectations of the production therefore I can say in all honesty that I did enjoy the film despite the faults which are too numerous to list here and have been covered already by reviewers far more eloquent than me.The editing of scenes & events would confuse a viewer who has not read the original novel and they would soon lose the plot as the film switches between scenes of the narrator in Woking and his brother in London . at one particular moment the brother is supposedly in a London street then suddenly witnesses the attack on the Elfinstone ladies in a country lane and runs to their rescue.Martian red weed appears just after the attack on both Woking and Shepperton with no explanation within the film at any time as to what it actually is.Much has been said of the encounter between HMS Thunderchild and the martians as the brother escapes England on a `` paddlesteamer '' , suffice to say it is truly awful and would have been better to be left out altogether . There is one much heralded scene where a tripods legs stride towards and over an artillery battery which is probably the best effect within this film and shows what could have been.Acting ? There is some truly awful dialogue between the characters . I defy anyone for instance not to end up cringing when watching the stilted exchange between the Elfinstone ladies and the brother as they `` discuss '' how they are to escape from England . I would also award the James Doohan award for the worst Scottish accent witnessed on film since Brigadoon when the narrator converses with a soldier on Horsell Common . In contrast when you watch the interaction with the actors trapped in the ruined house , also the encounter by the narrator of the dead woman in a `` London '' street , you are sadly reminded again of what could have been.I have given this film 2 stars which is generous and for the following reasons.The music score is fantastic.It is refreshing that the film is faithful to events in the book and had made the effort , albeit poorly , to set the book in Victorian England and not yet another updated version set in the US . Regretably due to cost constraints British style buildings are digitised and set Monty Python style within a field in Washington State to represent Woking , Shepperton or London.I did like the design of the fighting machines , also the handlers in the pit scenes.Above all else my 17 year old daughter who watched this film was not impressed at all but was intrigued as to the films setting and location . As a result she has made the effort to read the novel and to my surprise read it from cover to cover . The irony is that H.G Wells has gained another young admirer despite the very poor quality of this film and for this I am truly grateful.Would I however recommend this movie to a friend ? Sadly not if I wanted them to stay friends .