This is an interesting movie to stumble across while channel surfing but not a DVD to rent or own.What can you say about a movie where the hero slaughters hundreds of people but ca n't save his wife or ( later ) his love interest from being burned to death and yet manages to rescue a cute puppy.This not so much a science fiction move about a futuristic `` Orwellian Dystopia '' as it is a is a recipe of how to make a science fiction movie about a futuristic `` Orwellian Dystopia . '' Viewing this movie was kind of like playing Trivial Pursuit . It was more enjoyable trying to pick out the various ingredients in the recipe than actually watching the movie.Take Fahrenheit 451 ; add a heaping helping of 1984 ; just a pinch of Brave New World ( the `` interval '' drug injections ) ; stir in plenty of Matrix special effects ; add ample shoot 'em up action with a variety of weapons ( for extra flavor stir in a climactic samurai sword fight ) ; and just a slice of beefcake with a scene of Christian Bale without his shirt on . Mix well and bake in a crematorium ( this future society incinerates not only books but works of art and social misfits ) at 451 degrees until done then apply a tasty frosting of existential depth ( there are a lot of characters looking at each other out of the corners of their eyes and two of the characters quote Yeats ' `` He wishes for the cloths of heaven . `` ) Top with a maraschino cherry of a happy ending ( visually like the one in Fight Club ) and you have Equilibrium.The basic premise of the film is that after an apocalyptic war , all humanity is ruled by a single government in which a Big Brother figure maintains total thought control and conformity . In order to prevent conflict , all feelings and sensations are suppressed by constant monitoring and drug injections . People who violate the dictated norm are hunted down by `` clerics '' and eliminated by incineration.Christian Bales character is one of the `` clerics . '' He is a single father of two whose wife has been incinerated . He 's a top cleric but as the film progresses he begins to have doubts about what he 's doing.Ultimately , he seeks out the resistance leaders of the `` underground '' who are , literally , underground , forced to live in secret room filled with a clutter of paintings , books , old toys and bric a brac ( not unlike a modern teenager 's bedroom ) . Inspired by a young woman he has in custody and a cute puppy , he joins the resistance.Long story short , after a career of killing and incinerating people so they will remain emotionless drones and not kill one another and blow things up , Bale 's character kills people and blows things up so society can be free to express their emotions and they all start killing one another and blowing things up .