We should all congratulate Uwe Boll . He 's like some kind of cinematic cockroach . No matter how little talent he has , and no matter how bad these movies are , he manages to keep making them . I know , he finances them all himself through some kind of bizarre German fund , but even so , his ability to keep making movies despite absolute , complete failure is one of the great mysteries of the universe.It would n't be so bad except that video game developers keep giving their best properties to this guy . I really enjoyed the Alone in the Dark series of games . Even the latest one , the New Nightmare , was good for a few hours of game play . There was a good movie to be made out of Edward Carnby 's adventures , but this is not it . Now Uwe Boll has gotten his hands on Bloodrayne and Hunter : the Reckoning . What 's next , Silent Hill ? Doom ? I can only imagine the swath that this guy is going to cut through game-to-movie adaptations if he 's not stopped . Someone needs to take away his line of credit , or these video game publishers need to wise up and realize that when they make a bad movie out of a game that kills the franchise , no one is interested in that title any more.Think about it , is House of the Dead or Alone in the Dark a viable game title anymore ? No way . A new House of the Dead game comes out for XBox and nobody 's gon na care . The title is dead , and all because of Uwe Boll . So if any of you out there work for a game publisher , or know a game publisher , or have access to a game publisher ... please warn them.This movie itself is not even worth reviewing . I ca n't separate what I did n't like about this pile of dung from the rest of it . Literally , everything about it sucks . The writing , the acting , the music , the CG effects , the editing . I thought that if I waited until it came out on DVD and then rented it with low expectations , I would n't be disappointed . Even the $ 5 you will spend on this DVD if you buy it used off one of Amazon 's sellers is too much . You will regret it . This movie is just a bunch of Boll .