An aging stripper wields great powers over others with the aid of a mysterious amulet in SIN , YOU SINNERS . The word ` aging ' seems a kind way to put it . By the look of things , Mama 's 30-year-lease on middle age is about to expire soon , although that fact does n't seem to threaten her hold over manager Dave and her daughter . Nor , saints preserve us , does it stop her from grinding and bumping every 15 minutes or so . Dave , Mama 's bought and paid for boy toy , is her manager and bongo drum accompanist when she 's plying her second trade as an amulet waving spiritualist who specializes in bilking the rich . Dave also has the hots for the daughter , and the 20-something daughter has the hots for Dave , but neither can unrage a hormone whilst Mama wears the amulet . Even though Mama , saints preserve us , gets to shimmy and shake in her skimpy bikini with the fringe on top , this is n't really a blue movie . Beyond awful , I do n't know what it is or how to explain it . The second howler on this dvd , the reason I picked it up in the first place , is the Lenny Bruce scripted and starring vehicle ( the only real movie he was ever in ) DANCE HALL RACKET . This one is about a dance hall bilking its customer and the hall 's dancing girls bilking the management . Bruce is a revered by stand up comedians as an edgy , topical , pioneering genius of the first order . That may all be so , but his first scripting credited movie does n't bear it out . No stand up , no jokes , no ha-ha in this one . It stinks . It does n't help that the transfer print was in pretty bad shape , and at some point between 1953 and today someone clipped out all the brief nudie shots in the girls ' dressing room . Losing the quick peeks is no big deal , but it fouls up the soundtrack and dialogue and renders some conversations even more ridiculous than I imagine they 'd be otherwise . Two stinkers for the price of one . Not recommended as entertainment , although this is probably the best chance you have to see a walking and talking Lenny Bruce . If that does n't do it for you , avoid this dvd like the plague .