`` Just Married '' is a painfully cheesy movie that 's almost too lighthearted and cute . Ashton Kutcher and Brittany Murphy play a Romeo and Juliet-esqe couple that has been repeated in so many movies , its sickening - he 's the classic dorky sports fan and child of middle-income parents , and she 's the daughter of some billionare whose profession we never learn . Her parents would have rather married her to the snobby Peter Prentice , a dull antagonist who is more of a roadblock then an actual character . Anyway , the cute couple get married and jet off to Europe where their lies to eachother and unbelievable circumstances ( they are kicked out of a hotel after they ruin the circuit system by trying to plug in some kind of sex toy ) hinder their enjoyment of the perfect honeymoon . The movie was worsened by bad jokes , boring characters , and clich & egrave ; storylines . I think I considered laughing about once.The terrible thing about this movie was how unbelievable everything was . Every character was able to pull a beautiful and heartwarming monologue out of thin air . Most of the speeches did n't even fit the character 's personality , for instance , Kutcher 's character gave at least two of these monologues , and each one was one of the best parts of the film 's script . Too bad they came out sounding forced and awkward , since the character is n't supposed to be the brightest bulb in the box . Finally , the characters were painfully underdeveloped . We do n't know whether or not Murphy 's character likes being rich , nor can we ever really discern whether she 's a rich-girl ditz or an art-loving intellectual . We never find out what Murphy 's father does , and although a good , strong father-son relationship is hinted at between Kutcher 's character and his father , we never know for sure . Finally , an attractive blonde was constantly around Murphy 's character ... was she a sister ? friend ? cousin ? It nagged me through the whole movie.So , why not 1 star instead of 2 ? Well , Murphy and Kutcher proved to be excellent actors with amazing chemistry together . Murphy especially lit up the screen with her dazzling personality and cute , scratchy voice . Kutcher will be forever typecast as the dumb guy , but its a character that suits him well . I found them to be the only highlights of the movie.Bottom line : This movie kept me awake . It was fast paced and mildly enjoyable , but lacked anything fresh or different . See it if you like teen chick fliks , not if your idea of a movie is one that will keep you thinking .