Here 's a riddle for all of you . What 's do you call ten gallons of ice cream and a spoonful of manure ? Ten gallons of manure.I do n't care how much they dress up the DVD version of this movie , it wo n't change the fact that it 's terrible . I 'm only giving this one-star , but keep about five or six Advil handy . That ought to be enough to cover you for this.A couple of tid-bits about this disaster:1 . It 's made by Uwe Boll , helmer of two of the WORST movies I 've ever seen in 'House of the Dead ' and 'Alone in the Dark.'2 . In what ( to me ) was a staggering moment of brutal honesty , Boll himself admitted that he did n't cast the movie until TWO WEEKS before filming began . What he wound up with are a bunch of `` names '' that happened to have a hole in their schedule and showed up for a quick paycheck and a free trip to Romania . It shows too , the whole film feels like they just totally skipped rehersal and nobody looks even half-interested in making an honest effort.3 . Will Sanderson and Michael Madsen may have discovered the only way to survive a Boll film . They were reportly completely drunk through the whole production.4 . Ben Kingsley , who previously had to deal with Madsen on the film 'Species ' refused to even be on the same set with him.5 . In the harem scene with Meatloaf , those are HONEST TO GOD , 100 % FULL-BLOODED ROMANIAN PROSTITUTES . I swear you ca n't make this stuff up . Apparently , Boll could n't afford real actresses ( their union rates made them too expensive ) , so he decided he could cut costs by just ordering-out for the real thing.This is a disaster from front to back . I 'll give it this though , it 's better then his last two films . 'Bloodrayne ' , at least , is a little bit unintentionally funny . Even having said that though , I could never recommend anyone ever see this . It 'll only encourage the man to keep going.Uwe Boll , without a doubt in my mind , is the most talentless film-maker I 've ever seen . I 'm absolutely astonished that this guy keeps finding his way behind a camera ...