After being majorly disappointed by Spirited Killer , I set my expectations much lower for this movie . Unfortunately , it is even worse than Spirited Killer . The story is not really worth going over . Basically there is some guy who knows where a valuable stone is . An evil General and his men want the stone and are trying to get it . There is also a group of good guys trying to find the guy who knows where the stone is . That is the story.Tony Jaa plays one of the bad guys and looks pretty good in his 2 fight scenes , but all of the other fights are really bad . Some of the stunts are good , but not on par with most of Panna Rittikrai 's other movies . The good guys have a Rambo type person on their side and he kind of drags the movie down because his movements are very slow . But overall the main reason this movie is so bad is because there are n't many fights . I can stand a bad story as long as the fights are good , but this movie does n't provide that . Even the big finale is n't worth sticking around for . Thre are some decent explosions , but nothing to get excited about.Rating- 1/5 . This movie really makes you appreciate how much effort was put into Panna 's 2 Born to Fight movies.Picture quality is surprisingly good ( well , good for Videoasia ) . There is a HORRIBLE English dub track , but luckily there is also an original language track and subtitles.The only reason this 2-disc DVD set gets more than a 1 star rating is because of the special features.4 minute interview with Tony Jaa talking about Tom Yum Goong . No new information here , but while he is talking they show a really cool demonstration he did on some TV show.6 minute interview with Jaa talking about his inspiration for getting into films and a few other interesting topics.10 minute interview on some Thai comedy TV show with Prachya Pinkaew , Jaa , Panna , and Petchtai Wongkamlao . Mildly entertaining.5 minute demonstration and interview that Jaa did in Hong Kong . Good stuff here , but nothing you have n't seen before if you are a Jaa fan.22 minute interview with the producer of Pechpanna Films and a director/actor for the company . Awesome interview ! They talk about some really cool stuff , such as a new Thai movie called The Brave . It is n't subtitled and the dubbing is really cheesy , but that actually makes it more enjoyable ( to me at least ) . And there are some good action scenes mixed into the interview.3 minute Tony Jaa interview . It seems like they are just trying to pile on the special features with this . Only thing to talk about is a 1 minute demo they show at the end of the interview.Last but not least is an interview with Christoph Kluppel who is a big German Rambo guy that stars in Battle Warrior . He talks about his film career . I suppose this would be interesting if I was a fan of him .