Simply put : Style over substance . There are some excellent sequences , but that is all this film seems to be , well planned and executed sequences - but with nothing coherent gluing the whole thing together . The ` aeroplane near crash and last minute rescue ' is extremely impressively realised and the machine gun ammo slamming off Supe 's chest followed by the bullet in the eye are magnificent . My jaw was dropping and I almost wanted to cheer . That is what Superman is about : seeing him defeat the bad guys in new , engaging - even amusing - ways . But that was where the fun ended . As what Superman is not about is love children and ridiculous heroic dabblings with kryptonite . I find both to be so hideously implausible that they must both be ridiculed . As Brodie ( ably played by Jason Lee in Kevin Smith 's Mallrats ) points out , `` It 's impossible ! Lois Lane could never have Superman 's baby . Do you think her fallopian tubes could handle his sperm ? I guarantee you that when he comes during sex , he probably blows a load like a shotgun blast ... right through her back . '' So aside from Lois Lane being alive post coitus , you would then have the impossibility of a human being conceiving and bringing to full term an alien 's child . Do not forget that just because Clark Kent looks like and ostensibly acts like a human he is an alien . He is a different species entirely . And entirely different species can not mate . Just think of the havoc it would cause in the animal kingdom if a lion fell in love with and mated with a crocodile . Or a guinea fowl.The other issue that makes me quiver with anger is the whole cretinous concept of Superman being physically able to lift an entire continent of kryptonite into outer space . As internet blogger dpogue21 so proficiently phrases it ( much better than I could - so thank you dpogue ) in his imdb review , `` My next major complaint [ is ] that Superman lifts a continent made out of kryptonite up into outer space . It does n't take comic book guy from the Simpsons to point out what 's wrong with that . I do n't know how many comic books Bryan Singer has read , but when Superman is exposed to even a small amount of kryptonite he barely has the strength to stay on his feet . Whoever had the idea to have him fly a large island made out of his greatest weakness into space has no business being associated with any Superman-related projects ever again . The concept is as ridiculous as making a Dracula movie where the title character has a stake through his heart and still manages to fly a spaceship made out of garlic into the sun . Why not just have Superman eat kryptonite ? He can eat it and then brush his teeth with it , and then go to sleep in kryptonite pyjamas . That 's not any more absurd then having him hoist a continent of kryptonite into space and then fall powerless through the atmosphere without burning up in re-entry or splattering all over central park when he hits the ground . '' Need I say more ? Did n't think so.** [ ... ]