There are certain movies in Hollywood where the self-consciousness is so obvious , you can practically see what 's going on in the filmmakers ' heads . `` We 'll talk about terrorism , but we 'll put an Arabic-looking guy in command , just so the 9-11 watchdogs do n't get us . We 'll also mix up the good team and the bad team with enough racial colors on each side to look like a two-page Benetton spread so we can congratulate ourselves on how progressive we are.But all those missed opportunities at stereotyping need somewhere to vent.I got it ! The Asian girl can still play the kung fu dragon lady AND vixen prostitute ! '' ( the only two roles available to Asian women for the past hundred years ? ) I was having a five star experience , with the understanding that this was PURE ACTION FLICK ENTERTAINMENT AT IT 'S BEST . Reality should be left at home as injured men jump out of speeding cars onto concrete pavements before limping off for 24 more hours of punishment . Angles switch at a jarring pace between every 3-4 seconds , though Bruce Willis is among the lucky few who actually gets more handsome as he ages.I was actually quite entertained , finding I was able to suspend my anticipation of what may happen next . Well ... up till the hero 's racist / sexist trash talking after offing the Yellow Peril . `` Can I get another dead Asian hooker b**tch over here right away ? '' ( Unless `` hooker b**tch '' is colloquial for a female antagonist who is breaching security through computer codebreaking . ) Imagine him killing an African American head technician and making a comment about smoking a carjacking drug-dealer . Nobody would stand for it . I know I wouldn't.All I 'm saying is , if you 're going to to through all that trouble to create a pretty rainbow across the cast , why rain on the parade by not going a few more little steps ? So after that , I found it took increasing effort to suspend my imagination , implicitly knowing the movie was going to follow a stringent script that will grovel to appease the expectations of old men who frequent Thailand for you know ... computer programmers . There would be no more surprises , as all the fancy CGI thrown at me felt like something I 've already seen and heard before.The movie is ultimately about how an older generation , with sneakernet technology ( McClane to young computer wiz : `` We 're going to do something ( to get across town ) that they invented in the 60 's : jogging '' ) can still hold it 's own against the smug , keyboard-tapping new generation . So it needs to entertain by showing the graying generation that their language and physical brand of communication is still valid . I was rooting for the older , more physical , generation myself.But Really Hollywood . It 's been over twenty years since the Year of the Dragon . A soft spoken hero whose most passionate moment in a movie is when he turns into Mickey Rourke 's Stanley White looks like a dinosaur.And we all know what happened to dinosaurs .