If you want to be alone while watching Alone In The Dark , there 's good news and bad news . The good news is you will get your wish . The bad news is that misery loves company.Being dangled by red hot nipple clamps over a pit of cactus and scorpions would be less painful than sitting through this menage a trash about aliens , monsters , nefarious scientists , abducted children , a paranormal putz and Tara Reid as a museum curator . Pinch me , I must be dreaming.Better a pinch than a slap in the face , which is what this hokey poky of a film delivers . Alone in the Dark is supposedly based on an old Atari game , one that I 've never heard of . What I do remember about old Atari games was their rudimentary graphics and storylines . I doubt the film= s extended back story was even a consideration.So in order to fill in the blanks , writers Elan Mastai , Michael Roesch , and Peter Scheerer borrow and steal from other films . Better films . Films that make you realize you= re not just watching an imitation , but a really bad imitation , like Chuck Norris doing his one man tribute to Judy Garland . I 'll admit his rendition of Easter Parade had me in tears , but only because he was kicking me in the face.That 's what it felt like watching Alone in the Dark . I don= t mind dumb , stupid horror films , but I hate dumb , stupid horror films that refuse to acknowledge that fact . Alone in the Dark arrives with such a poker face its impossible to know if we= re supposed to take any of this seriously . We are , but we don= t , or more precisely , can= t. There= s no leeway in the script , direction or acting.Government conspiracies abound ( after a slavishly long opening crawl ) in Alone in the Dark , which finds paranormal investigator Edward Carnby ( Christian Slater ) teaming up with an elite group of government agents to defeat an ancient evil . As an orphan , Edward escaped the clutches of unscrupulous government agent/scientist Lionel Hudgens ( Matthew Walker ) , whose depraved experiments turned children into crossbred zombies . Now that Hudgens has found the final key to unlock the portal between dark and light , it 's up to Edward , former lover and curator Aline Cedrac ( Reid ) and commando leader Burke ( Stephen Dorff ) to save mankind.Yeah , that= s who I would call when ultimate evil decides to bitch slap humanity : two actors riding that direct-to-video rail and an actress best known for flashing paparazzi . Was this a casting decision or payback ? Director Uwe Boll ( The House of the Dead ) isn=t much help , never allowing the actors to step outside of the paper-thin box or express any emotion beyond the written word . If everyone in front or behind the camera just acknowledged the obvious , Alone in the Dark would have been a hoot . Computer-generated monsters that never seem to occupy the same frame as the actors , trigger-happy commandos , a convoluted plot that makes no sense , paper doll characters , all the trappings of a goofy good time.Too bad the folks behind Alone in the Dark didn=t fall into that trap .