Femme Fatale is Brian De Palma 's all style , little story film noir about a woman ( Rebecca Romijin-Stamos ) , who makes some poor choices ensnaring an innocent ( Antonio Banderas ) in her web . It 's got the signature De Palma eye candy - eroticism , clever cinematography , and a film which moves by pure style alone - but in the end you 'll feel empty , and , unfortunately coming up on the short end for the time you invested in it.The film begins with a spectacularly improbable jewel heist at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival in which Rebecca and team plot to relieve a mostly naked actress of her few bodily coverings - a priceless gold and diamond serpentine bodice and accoutrements . Although visually and musically interesting , the opening scene asks for many oversights from the viewer - such as ignoring the fact that much of the caper 's plan , despite its high tech Mission Impossible style setup , relies on guards looking the wrong way and Rebecca being irresistible . Things go awry , and in the end Rebecca double crosses her team , makes away with the goods , and searches for another life.She finds one in a couple searching for their runaway daughter , who Rebecca is such a dead ringer for that the woman 's own parents ca n't tell the difference . She assumes her identity , claims her tickets to America , and , through fate , falls into the romantic embrace of the American ambassor who is on the plane . Life is great until paparazzi photographer Antonio Banderas snaps her elusive picture , announcing her presence to the double-crossed bad guys . From there on Rebecca seeks the exit-stage-left route which nets her the most money at any cost.The story plays like a check list of eroticism - there 's voyeurism , a striptease , trists at the Cannes Festival . Brian De Palma does it all with style - split screen , sweeping camera angles - and it is fun to watch him in action - but it 's still not enough to plug the holes of the story.The ending attempts to pull all of the dark themes of the movie into a happy silver lining , but will leave you betrayed . Despite the star power , I did n't enjoy Femme Fatale . True , Rebecca was n't blue - fans of her X-Men role wo n't be disappointed . Antonio Banderas ' character had one or two interesting scenes , but on the most part trounced along doing whatever he was manipulated into doing , with no original solutions out of his situation . Seeing him come up with a clever escape would have been a much better ending - but , as it is , instead the end relied on an overdone gimmick to get out of it 's dreary finale.Pass on Femme Fatale - even if you 're looking to see Rebecca in a non-X-Men light . Despite all the glitz it just is n't worth the investment .