The title comes from the idea that serial killers have graduate degrees in murder , though I would have thought the committing of mutiple acts would jettison them into post-graduate territory . The 4 killers mentioned here - Charles Manson , Henry Lee Lucas , Ottis Elwood Toole , and Kenneth Bianchi - receive disproportionate coverage . Manson is not seen at all , which may be a blessing considering the one crazed interview I have seen him give . Henry Lee Lucas gets short shift , as well , but his partner Ottis Toole has perhaps the most troubling predicament . Although convicted and imprisoned for what is said to be an unbelievable 700 killings , with Lucas , Toole gives the impression that he did n't do any of them . That 's not to say he is totally crimeless , since he freely admits to various acts of arson , but he claims that he confessed to the murders based on the information the police gave ie that wanted him to be guilty so he obliged them . The study of Kenneth Bianchi , known as the Hillside Strangler , also touches on this behaviour which psychiatrist Martin T Orne defines as textbook sociopathy . But whilst it 's easy to believe that Bianchi in his interviews is pretending , it 's harder to accept that Toole is , with his bumpkin personage and smiling facade . Perhaps that just makes Toole the better actor , since Orne also believes Toole is a serial killer . Bianchi 's initial defense for his killings was multiple personality disorder , and when Dr Orne proved him a faker , negating the testimony of other psychiatrists , Binachi dropped the charade and was found guilty , though plea bargaining for evidence against his accomplice lessened the number from 14 vicitims to 7 . This video was made in 1987 and it is said that Bianchi was due for parole in the 1990 's , something that Dr Orne believes that he had a good chance of getting since Bianchi 's tactic of no remorse-no memory was winning him alliances . However while Toole 's face reveals an idiot child amused by his own game , Bianchi 's is the banality of evil , a bland surface that can not be trusted . The video concludes with survivors of serial killers , including the mother of Sharon Tate , who regularly meet to monitor the parole hearings of convicted murderers . One can only wonder if they were able to have an influence on Bianchi 's release , since Orne predicts that once this form of obsessive/compulsive behaviour is acted upon , there is no stopping it . In Dr Orne 's opinion , no matter how good a prisoner Bianchi had been , once free he would start up again . Some may feel it a pity that these men escaped the death penalty by being in states where it was been abolished , and the idea that life imprisonment being a worse form of punishment than execution is diluted by parole and good behavioural conditions of service . This may seem harsh but Dr Orne says there is no civilised method of punishment effective enough to be a deterrant - the best that can be done is to keep the perpetrators isolated from the rest of society . There are no parallels drawn between the killers seen here , no similarities that could possibly explain what triggered their actions . If we are unable to comprehend their behaviour , at least we can be grateful that it was stopped , at least for a time .