Beverly Hills Cop needed no introduction . It was one of the best action comedies of 1984 . It helped usher Eddie Murphy into the mainstream and reigned supreme 1984 . Beverly Hills Cop II was pretty good . A little over the top but still fun . It complimented Tony Scott 's style of film-making and it also captured the essense of the 80s . This monstrosity is instantly forgettable from start to finish.A bust goes horribly wrong and Inspector Todd ( Gilbert R Hill ) is killed . Axel ( Eddie Murphy ) traces the killer known as Ellis De Wald ( Timothy Carhart ) to a cheesy Disney knock-off called Wonderworld where Ellis De Wald is the supervisor.Where do I start first ? Axel Foley doesnt even feel like Axel Foley ( kind of like how Big Top Pee Wee is different from the Pee Wee of Big Adventure ) . Eddie spends the whole movie looking like he cant grasp what his character is supposed to be . Gone is the tenacious but silly cop that annoyed his target . He is replaced by a guy who is so laid back in his demeanor that he gets boring to watch after a while.The only returning characters are Inspector Todd ( but he gets killed in the beginning ) and Rosewood ( Judge Reinhold ) . Taggart is gone and so is Sgt . Bogomil . That was the tipoff that this movie was DOA.The first two BHC movies had pretty good villians considering the time period . Victor Maitland and The Alphabet Killer were good villians but Ellis De Wald is awful . No disrespect towards Timothy Carhart but he was pretty hammy and his mater plan was weak and showed laziness on behalf of the writers . Using an amusement park to make counterfeit cash ? How lame is that.The movie is rarely funny and bringing back Serge ( Bronson Pinochet ) was a cheap attempt to make us remember the first interaction that Serge and Axel Foley had in the first movie . There is one redeeming moment in this movie : the malfunctioning park ride sequence where Axel saves two kids . This scene is the only reason why I gave it two stars . The humor for the most part is forced and if ever hear that annoying theme song for Wonderworld it will be too soon . Who thought that was an amusing plot device anyway ? In conclusion this movie killed a promising series . Its a shame that the same wondeful director ( John Landis ) behind Animal House , Blues Brothers , Coming To America and few other of my favorite movies is behind this mess . John Landis is a great director but not a great director for this type of movie . Thumbs down .