`` 28 Days Later '' is easily the best horror movie I 've seen in a long time . What impressed me most about it was how intelligent it was ; meaning , the suspension of disbelief was very manageable . Once I got past the idea of a virus affecting someone in that way and spreading so quickly , the rest of the plot made perfectly good sense to me . The few questions I had were easily enough sussed out over a beer with my friends . When I heard that they were making a sequel I got very excited and actually marked my calendar . Opening night , first showing after I got off work I was there . Three hours later I was banging my head on a table and wondering if there was enough beer in the world to make sense of what I 'd just seen . `` 28 Weeks Later '' should become a case study in film schools of how to take everything good about an amazing movie and toss it aside for the sequel . As mentioned in some other reviews , the plot holes are enormous and unrelenting . My `` favorite '' ones being : 1 ) the kids just walk out of the safe zone and we even see soldiers in the guard tower just let them go , 2 ) nobody is monitoring or guarding the infected ( but not symptomatic ) survivor , 3 ) her husband is dumb enough to kiss her , and 4 ) no matter how many city blocks the little boy is frantically driven through , his `` Raged-Out '' Dad quickly appears and focuses on attacking him and only him . I was especially looking forward to see the virus spreading through a crowd , as was recounted in the first film . Nope . When it hits the fan in the train station , what happens ? The lights go out and we 're given a bunch of quick-cut , strobing shots . Gee , thanks . Unless you 're epileptic there 's nothing scary about that . I give this two stars mostly because I could n't give `` Days '' seven . Well , let 's call it one for the opening sequence and one for the ending . If it was n't for the promise of seeing France get it in the next one , this movie would 've totally turned me off to any future `` 28 Anything '' .