I 've been a longtime follower of Smallville , and every year there 's always fans ( myself included ) who finger the current year as `` Jumping the shark '' . If you browse my profile you 'll find my reviews of the older seasons start enthusiastic and become more critical as the years pass . While I wo n't comment on the currently airing season 8 , the trend seems to hold true when you compare season 7 to the six that came before it - they 're pure genius compared to this mess.There 's way too much going on this year . Smallville always has great comic book-esque storylines , but lacks development and internal logic within its own world . The writers jump from plot to plot with no pacing , so you get seemingly dramatic life-changing events that are completely forgotten by the next episode . There 's a shocking twist involving the new Daily Planet Editor that 's cut short right when it gets interesting ; the return of Clark 's biological mom Lara barely lasts an episode ; Bizzaro appears and is promptly defeated - twice ; Clark travels through time and space to save his infant self on Krypton in all of five minutes . Sam Jones finally returns as Pete Ross and is wasted in horrible product placement . Supergirl is introduced and barely developed before she 's saddled with the amnesia cliche and disappears for most of the season . Why not settle on 2 or 3 storylines and develop them properly ? And do n't blame the writer 's strike , which cuts this season by 2 episodes - the problems were obvious before the strike happened.Speaking of outside influences , quite a few characters leave the show this year . Kristen Kreuk 's sudden departure to film Street Fighter leaves her already weak character a rather anemic farewell - luckily she 'll be back briefly in season 8 to tie up loose ends . Another character that I wo n't spoil dies a noble death , and will be missed . It 's Rosenbaum 's departure that 's the real kicker , though . Not only is Smallville 's best actor not coming back , but he 's left with an ambiguous and unsatisfying ending . Hardly a great capper to 7 years of amazing work.There are some things Smallville does right this year - the return of Brainiac and the 'Veritas ' storyline bring a sense of continuity that the show has been sorely lacking . But overall , there 's a lack of coherency that seasons 5 and 6 tried to have , and the show has no heart now that the Kent parents are gone . Whether or not you need this season depends on if you bought the first six and absolutely want the complete collection .