Let me start by saying that I am NOT a beginner . So I can tell you with certainty that this IS NOT FOR BEGINNERS . Yes , I am shouting : ) However , if you are a beginner , you can still use it if you pay close attention to what I 'm about to say.Women in particular , use no weight or 2 - 3 pound weights for the entire workout the first time you complete it.NO MORE THAN 3 POUNDS YOUR FIRST TIME PLEASE ! ! ! IF YOU HAVE WORKED OUT BEFORE , NO MORE THAN 5 POUNDS ! ! ! Beware of the swimming and butterfly moves . I think it 's best to use NO weight for these 2 moves at first.I recommend the above because most of the moves are done at speed so whether you have worked out before or not , some moves are too fast to maintain good form particularly for a beginner . In addition , the excessive shoulder presses could put strain on your neck . After the first time you do this dvd , you can figure out what weights you need and if you want to switch off for some exercises that 's a good idea.The trainer is a little annoying because he keeps calling it your first `` beginner '' workout . It 's very irritating because it 's NOT technically a beginner workout . Other than that , it can be a good workout for someone who has worked out before and will slow down some of the moves and practice good form . It 's hard to know how to do that if you have never worked out before . It 's clear that `` beginner '' does n't necessarily mean that it 's your first ever workout , but it could be for some . And remember , trainer BOB insists that it 's your first beginner workout , so apparently he thinks a first timer can do it . With this , he should have advised the use of very very light weights and had a modifier . I gave this dvd 2 stars because it 's 2012 and there should have been various options on the menu to show modifications & a little further explanation.In summary , a beginner can do it , but do NOT use more than 3 pounds your first time . And do NOT be discouraged if you ca n't do it all . Most beginners will not be able to do the entire thing your first time . Perhaps trainer BOB should change the name to begoners , because it 's going to be intimidating to most beginners and many will probably get hurt if they do n't know how to pace themselves and use proper technique .