Interview With A Vampire was an excellent film , beautifully made based on an incredible idea . Queen Of The Damned illustrates if nothing else that Anne Rice is a wonderfully creative author , but I found that this film version of one of her books was very dull with plenty of wafer-thin characters thrown in . The vampire Lestat ( wonderfully played by Stuart Townsend ) decides to come out of retirement which is in fact a several hundred year slumber . He gives a great insight into the world of vampires- you know hates light , garlic and all things holy ; loves darkness , blood attractive young ladies necks and eerrr `` Nu-Metal ! '' But what annoys him most of all is that he 's immortal . I mean he does n't age at all , seems to have unlimited financial resources-yet he is just so bored with life . Sounds like a sort of spoilt brat vampire to me ! So he figures that if he can totally provoke all the other vampires then maybe they 'll become so enraged that they 'll put him out of this eternal misery-and who better to the job then the `` Queen Of The Damned '' -or Aaliyah to us . How does he provoke them and her-well he becomes the lead singer of the world 's biggest and most controversial Nu-Metal band . Hey I 'd definitely be in with all the other vampires . There are interesting aspects to this film-how he became a vampire and how he dealt with this is pretty fascinating . Plus it 's all shot using typical gothic colour and imagery . The monologue of his thoughts are filled with comical irony and is delivered in a marvellous 'dead-pan ' way . Some of the subtle inter-action between the characters is also hilarious . Aaliyah looks astounding in her role as the queen of all the vampires-she really has a screen presence and what a tragedy that her career as an actress and musician was cut short . The vampire versus vampire conflicts that go on through the film is also quite original . Unfortunately none of the effects are particularly spectacular . Overall though while the idea is good the development and story line is just too weak to make this a truly memorable film .